Mesolithic Complexity in Scandinavia
The European Mesolithic (roughly the period from 8000 B.C to 2700 B.C) testifies to a continuity in human culture from the times of the Ice Age. This continuity, however, was based on continuous adjustment to environmental changes following the end of the last glacial period (about 12,500 years ago). Three broad subdivisions within the northern Mesolithic are known in Scandinavia. The Maglemose Period (7500-5700 B.C.) was a time of seasonal exploitation of rivers and lakes, combined with terrestrial hunting and foraging. The sites from the Kongemose Period (5700-4600 B.C.) are mainly on the Baltic Sea coasts, along bays and near lagoons, where the people exploited both marine and terrestrial resources. Many Kongemose sites are somewhat larger than Maglemose ones. The Ertebolle Period (4600-3200 B.C) was the culmination of Mesolithic culture in southern Scandinavia.
By the Ertebolle Period, the Scandinavia were occupying coastal settlements year-round and subsisting off a very wide range of food sources. These included forest game and waterfowl, shellfish, sea mammals, and both shallow-water and deepwater fish. There were smaller, seasonal coastal sites, too, for specific activities such as deepwater fishing, sealing, or hunting of migratory birds. One such site, the Aggersund site in Denmark, was occupied for short periods of time in the autumn, when the inhabitants collected oysters and hunted some game, especially migratory swans. Ertebolle technology was far more elaborate than that of its Mesolithic predecessors, a wide variety of antler, bone, and wood tools for socialized purposes such as fowling and sea-mammal hunting were developed, including dugout canoes up to ten meters long.
With sedentary settlement comes evidence of greater social complexity in the use of cemeteries for burials and changes in burial practices. The trend toward more sedentary settlement, the cemeteries, and the occasional social differentiation revealed by elaborate burials are all reflections of an intensified use of resources among these relatively affluent hunter-gatherers of 3000 B.C Mesolithic societies intensified the food quest by exploiting many more species, making productive use of migratory waterfowl and their breeding grounds, and collecting shellfish in enormous numbers. This intensification is also reflected in a much more elaborate and diverse technology, more exchange of goods and materials between neighbors, greater variety in settlement types, and a slowly rising population throughout southern Scandinavia. These phenomena may, in part, be a reflection of rising sea levels throughout the Mesolithic that flooded many cherished territories. There are signs, too, of regional variations in artifact forms and styles, indicative of culture differences between people living in well-delineated territories and competing for resources.
Mesolithic cultures are much less well-defined elsewhere in Europe, partly because the climatic changes were less extreme than in southern Scandinavia and because there were fewer opportunities for coastal adaptation. In much of central Europe, settlement was confined to lakeside and riverside locations, widely separated from one another by dense forests. Marry Mesolithic lakeside sites were located in transitional zones between different environments so that the inhabitants could return to a central base location, where for much of the year they lived close to predictable resources such as lake fish. However, they would exploit both forest game and other seasonal resources from satellite camps. For example, the archaeologist Michael Jochim believes that some groups lived during most of the year in camps along the Danube River in central Europe, moving to summer encampments on the shores of neighboring lakes. In areas like Spain, there appears to have been intensified exploitation of marine and forest resources. There was a trend nearly everywhere toward greater variety in the diet, with more attention being paid to less obvious foods and to those that require more complex processing methods than do game and other such resources.
Thus, in part of Europe, there was a long-term trend among hunter-gatherer societies toward a more extensive exploitation of food resources, often within the context of a strategy that sought ways to minimize the impact of environmental uncertainty. In more favored southern Scandinavia, such societies achieved a new level of social complexity that was to become commonplace among later farming peoples, and this preadaptation proved an important catalyst for rapid economic and social change when farming did come to Europe.
Paragraph 1
The European Mesolithic (roughly the period from 8000 B.C to 2700 B.C) testifies to a continuity in human culture from the times of the Ice Age. This continuity, however, was based on continuous adjustment to environmental changes following the end of the last glacial period (about 12,500 years ago). Three broad subdivisions within the northern Mesolithic are known in Scandinavia. The Maglemose Period (7500-5700 B.C.) was a time of seasonal exploitation of rivers and lakes, combined with terrestrial hunting and foraging. The sites from the Kongemose Period (5700-4600 B.C.) are mainly on the Baltic Sea coasts, along bays and near lagoons, where the people exploited both marine and terrestrial resources. Many Kongemose sites are somewhat larger than Maglemose ones. The Ertebolle Period (4600-3200 B.C) was the culmination of Mesolithic culture in southern Scandinavia.
1. What can be infer from paragraph 1 about human life in Mesolithic Scandinavia?
People tend to live in smaller group during the Ertebolle Period than during earlier Mesolithic Period.
The areas where it was advantages to live changed over time as a result of environmental changes.
Human groups were less affected by environmental change during the Maglemose Period than during the Kongemose Period.
During most of the Mesolithic, people were more dependent on terrestrial food sources than other food sources.
Paragraph 2
By the Ertebolle Period, the Scandinavia were occupying coastal settlements year-round and subsisting off a very wide range of food sources. These included forest game and waterfowl, shellfish, sea mammals, and both shallow-water and deepwater fish. There were smaller, seasonal coastal sites, too, for specific activities such as deepwater fishing, sealing, or hunting of migratory birds. One such site, the Aggersund site in Denmark, was occupied for short periods of time in the autumn, when the inhabitants collected oysters and hunted some game, especially migratory swans. Ertebolle technology was far more elaborate than that of its Mesolithic predecessors, a wide variety of antler, bone, and wood tools for socialized purposes such as fowling and sea-mammal hunting were developed, including dugout canoes up to ten meters long.

2.Why does the author mention “Aggersund site in Denmark” and its brief periods of occupation?
To suggest that supply of year round food sources near earlier settlement sites had nearly disappeared
To give an example of a small, temporary coastal site that took advantage of seasonal food sources
To illustrate how small coastal settlements could not last as long as large forest settlements
To high the fact that none of the Denmark camps were able to be occupied year-round.
3. Paragraph 2 suggests that before the Ertebolle Period, hunting tools and other Mesolithic technologies
were available only in small coastal sites
were developed mainly in Denmark
were made mainly from animal bones
were somewhat simple
Paragraph 3
With sedentary settlement comes evidence of greater social complexity in the use of cemeteries for burials and changes in burial practices. The trend toward more sedentary settlement, the cemeteries, and the occasional social differentiation revealed by elaborate burials are all reflections of an intensified use of resources among these relatively affluent hunter-gatherers of 3000 B.C Mesolithic societies intensified the food quest by exploiting many more species, making productive use of migratory waterfowl and their breeding grounds, and collecting shellfish in enormous numbers. This intensification is also reflected in a much more elaborate and diverse technology, more exchange of goods and materials between neighbors, greater variety in settlement types, and a slowly rising population throughout southern Scandinavia. These phenomena may, in part, be a reflection of rising sea levels throughout the Mesolithic that flooded many cherished territories. There are signs, too, of regional variations in artifact forms and styles, indicative of culture differences between people living in well-delineated territories and competing for resources.
4.	The wordList “exploiting” in the passage is closest in meaning to
calling attention to
focusing on
taking advantage of
searching for
5. According to paragraph 3, the existence of cemeteries in Mesolithic Scandinavia is associated with
increased social complexity
problems in obtaining sufficient food
a dramatically increasing population
a trend toward reduced dependence on the food sources provided by
Paragraph 4
Mesolithic cultures are much less well-defined elsewhere in Europe, partly because the climatic changes were less extreme than in southern Scandinavia and because there were fewer opportunities for coastal adaptation. In much of central Europe, settlement was confined to lakeside and riverside locations, widely separated from one another by dense forests. Marry Mesolithic lakeside sites were located in transitional zones between different environments so that the inhabitants could return to a central base location, where for much of the year they lived close to predictable resources such as lake fish. However, they would exploit both forest game and other seasonal resources from satellite camps. For example, the archaeologist Michael Jochim believes that some groups lived during most of the year in camps along the Danube River in central Europe, moving to summer encampments on the shores of neighboring lakes. In areas like Spain, there appears to have been intensified exploitation of marine and forest resources. There was a trend nearly everywhere toward greater variety in the diet, with more attention being paid to less obvious foods and to those that require more complex processing methods than do game and other such resources.
6. The wordList “confined” in the passage is closest in meaning to
adapted to
limited to
expanded to
located next to
7. According to paragraph 4, how were Mesolithic societies in central Europe able to meet their food needs for much of the year?
By finding new opportunities for coastal adaptations wherever they could
By keeping their base camps in dense forests with plenty of forest game
By settling in areas that provided both predictable food resources and access to different kinds of environments
Buy hunting farther and farther from their central base camps each day
Paragraph 5
Thus, in part of Europe, there was a long-term trend among hunter-gatherer societies toward a more extensive exploitation of food resources, often within the context of a strategy that sought ways to minimize the impact of environmental uncertainty. In more favored southern Scandinavia, such societies achieved a new level of social complexity that was to become commonplace among later farming peoples, and this preadaptation proved an important catalyst for rapid economic and social change when farming did come to Europe.
8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlight sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
Because of favorable conditions in southern Scandinavia and the social complexity of their societies, hunter-gatherer societies did not adapt to farming until economic change required it.
When farming came to Europe and became common, hunter-gatherer societies finally achieved high levels of social complexity.
Social complexity was common in the societies of southern Scandinavia but was less common in other areas where farming came later.
Hunter-gatherer societies in southern Scandinavia achieved a new level of social complexity, and this allowed them to quickly achieve economic and social change when farming was introduced.

Paragraph 1
The European Mesolithic (roughly the period from 8000 B.C to 2700 B.C) testifies to a continuity in human culture from the times of the Ice Age. This continuity, however, was based on continuous adjustment to environmental change following the end of the last glacial period (about 12,500 years ago). Three broad subdivisions within the northern Mesolithic are known in Scandinavia. The Maglemose Period (7500-5700 B.C.) was a time of seasonal exploitation of rivers and lakes, combined with terrestrial hunting and foraging. The sites from the Kongemose Period (5700-4600 B.C) are mainly on the Baltic Sea coasts, along bays and near lagoons, where the people exploited both marine and terrestrial resources. Many Kongemose sites are somewhat larger than Maglemose ones. The Ertebolle Period (4600-3200 B.C) was the culmination of Mesolithic culture in southern Scandinavia.
9.	Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
Such adaptation involved changes in hunting and food gathering that make it possible to identify distinct Mesolithic periods and cultures in some regions
Where would the sentence best fit?

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.
Throughout the European Mesolithic, the trend was toward greater social complexity and greater exploitation of food resources.
Answer Choices
Early in Mesolithic, Maglemose hunter-gatherers arrived in Scandinavia from regions beyond the Baltic Sea and began to establish seasonal sites along bays and near lagoons.
In Scandinavia, populations were growing and becoming more sedentary, leading to more elaborate burials and to exchanges of goods with other groups.
Because most Mesolithic populations outside of Scandinavia were widely separated by deep forest, they tended to develop more economically and socially complex societies.
By the end of the Mesolithic, Scandinavians had developed elaborate and specialized tools for exploiting a very wide range of food sources.
Climate change forced southern Scandinavia to leave coastal areas and relocate to Central Europe, where they took advantage of food resources in dense forests and lakes.
The stages of Mesolithic culture in Scandinavia, unlike those in other parts of Europe, are more distinct in part because climate changes were more extreme in Scandinavia.


Evolution of the Flowering Plants
Many aspects of the history of flowering plants (angiosperms) remain mysterious. Evidence of the earliest angiosperms comes from fossilized leaves, stems, fruits, pollen, and, very rarely, flowers. In addition, there has been much study of modern plant morphology (structure) and genetics in order to determine which living species might be most closely related to the ancient ancestors of angiosperms. Despite intensive efforts for over 200 years, scientists have still not reached consensus on which type of plant was the ancestor to the angiosperms, and when and where the angiosperms first evolved. Indeed, Charles Darwin himself called the origin of the flowering plants an ―abominable mystery.‖
What type of plant was the ancestor to the angiosperms? Most botanists now agree that the flowering plants are monophyletic in origin, meaning that they evolved from a common ancestor. Some paleontologists have suggested that the common ancestor may have been a type of cycad (palmlike tropical plants). Other paleontologists maintain that the angiosperms may have evolved from seed-bearing ferns. Finally, analysis of the morphological traits of some primitive living plants suggests that the ancestor may have been related to the modern pines. The question of angiosperm ancestry remains unresolved.
The time and place of the first appearance of flowering plants have long been a topic of great interest. There is good fossil evidence that early angiosperms, including a number resembling modern magnolias, were present in the Early Cretaceous geologic period (more than 100 million years ago). Angiosperms became increasingly abundant during this period. Between 100 million and 65 million years ago, a period known as the Late Cretaceous, angiosperms increased from less than 1 percent of flora (plant life) to well over 50 percent. Many of the modern plant families appeared during this time period. In the Early Tertiary period which followed, angiosperms increased to comprise 90 percent or more of Earth’s total flora. Where did these successful plants first originate and spread from?
Analysis of the fossil leaf structure and geographic distribution of the earliest Cretaceous angiosperms has led many biogeographers to conclude that they evolved in the tropics and then migrated poleward. It is known that angiosperms did not become dominant in the high latitudes until the Late Cretaceous. Paleontologists have recovered fossil angiosperm leaves, sterns, and pollen from Early Cretaceous deposits in eastern South America and western Africa. These two continents were joined together as part of Gondwanaland, one of two supercontinents that existed at that time. The locations of these early angiosperm finds would have been close to the equator during the Early Cretaceous and are comfortable with a model by which angiosperms spread from the tropics poleward.
Not all botanists agree with an African-South American center for the evolution and dispersal of the angiosperms, pointing out that many of the most primitive forms of flowering plants are found in the South Pacific, including portions of Fiji, New Caledonia, New Guinea, eastern Australia, and the Malay Archipelago. Recent genetic research has identified the rare tropical shrub Amborella as being the living plant most closely related to the ancient ancestor of all the angiosperms. This small shrub, which has tiny yellow-white flowers and red fruit, is found only on New Caledonia, a group of islands in the South Pacific. Many botanists conclude that the best explanation for the large numbers of primitive living angiosperms in the South Pacific region is that this is where the flowering plants first evolved and these modern species are relics of this early evolution. Comparisons of the DNA of Amborella and many hundreds of species of flowering plants suggest that the first angiosperm arose and the development of separate species occurred about 135 million years ago.
Recently discovered fossils complicate our understanding of the origin of the angiosperms even further. Paleontologists from China have found beautifully preserved fossils of an angiosperm plant, including flowers and seeds, in Jurassic period deposits from China. The site, which is about 130 million years old, is near modern Beijing. The new fossil plant found at the site is now the oldest known angiosperm. The age of the fossils and the very primitive features of the flowers have led the discoverers to suggest that the earliest flowering plants may have evolved in northern Asia.
Paragraph 1
Many aspects of the history of flowering plants (angiosperms) remain mysterious. Evidence of the earliest angiosperms comes from fossilized leaves, stems, fruits, pollen, and, very rarely, flowers. In addition, there has been much study of modern plant morphology (structure) and genetics in order to determine which living species might be most closely related to the ancient ancestors of angiosperms. Despite intensive efforts for over 200 years, scientists have still not reached consensus on which type of plant was the ancestor to the angiosperms, and when and where the angiosperms first evolved. Indeed, Charles Darwin himself called the origin of the flowering plants an “abominable mystery.”
1. The phrase “not reached consensus on” in the passage is closest in meaning to
not formulated a theory about
not agreed on
not been able to explain
not found evidence for
2. According to paragraph 1, all of the following types of evidence have been important for studying the history of angiosperms EXCEPT
fossils of angiosperm sterns and leaves
knowledge of the structure of modern angiosperms
large collections of well-preserved angiosperm flowers
genetic studies of modern angiosperms
Paragraph 2
What type of plant was the ancestor to the angiosperms? Most botanists now agree that the flowering plants are monophyletic in origin, meaning that they evolved from a common ancestor. Some paleontologists have suggested that the common ancestor may have been a type of cycad (palmlike tropical plants). Other paleontologists maintain that the angiosperms may have evolved from seed-bearing ferns. Finally, analysis of the morphological traits of some primitive living plants suggests that the ancestor may have been related to the modern pines. The question of angiosperm ancestry remains unresolved.
3. The wordList "maintain" in the passage is closest in meaning to
reply
assume
suspect
claim
4. According to paragraph 2, most botanists now believe which of the following about angiosperms?
The ancestor of today’s angiosperms was most likely a palmlike tropical plant.
Today’s angiosperms can be traced back to a single ancestor.
Angiosperms likely evolved from three very different plants.
Angiosperms share a common ancestor with modern pines.
Paragraph 3
The time and place of the first appearance of flowering plants have long been a topic of great interest. There is good fossil evidence that early angiosperms, including a number resembling modern magnolias, were present in the Early Cretaceous geologic period (more than 100 million years ago). Angiosperms became increasingly abundant during this period. Between 100 million and 65 million years ago, a period known as the Late Cretaceous, angiosperms increased from less than 1 percent of flora (plant life) to well over 50 percent. Many of the modern plant families appeared during this time period. In the Early Tertiary period which followed, angiosperms increased to comprise 90 percent or more of Earth’s total flora. Where did these successful plants first originate and spread from?
5. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 3 about angiosperms during the Early Cretaceous?
They represented less than 1 percent of plant life.
Their numbers remained stable during this period.
They existed in forms that are very unlike plants living today.
They only rarely left traces in the fossil record.
Paragraph 4
Analysis of the fossil leaf structure and geographic distribution of the earliest Cretaceous angiosperms has led many biogeographers to conclude that they evolved in the tropics and then migrated poleward. It is known that angiosperms did not become dominant in the high latitudes until the Late Cretaceous. Paleontologists have recovered fossil angiosperm leaves, sterns, and pollen from Early Cretaceous deposits in eastern South America and western Africa. These two continents were joined together as part of Gondwanaland, one of two supercontinents that existed at that time. The locations of these early angiosperm finds would have been close to the equator during the Early Cretaceous and are comparable with a model by which angiosperms spread from the tropics poleward.
6.	What does the author include the information that “fossil angiosperm leaves, stems, and pollen” have been found in places that were once joined together as part of Gondwanaland ?
To provide support for the claim that angiosperms first appeared in the tropics
To explain how scientists have determined the geographical location of supercontinents during Earth’s early history
To provide evidence that angiosperms evolved in similar ways in different parts of the world
To challenge the idea that angiosperms spread toward the poles during the Cretaceous
Paragraph 5
Not all botanists agree with an African-South American center for the evolution and dispersal of the angiosperms, pointing out that many of the most primitive forms of flowering plants are found in the South Pacific, including portions of Fiji, New Caledonia, New Guinea, eastern Australia, and the Malay Archipelago. Recent genetic research has identified the rare tropical shrub Amborella as being the living plant most closely related to the ancient ancestor of all the angiosperms. This small shrub, which has tiny yellow-white flowers and red fruit, is found only on New Caledonia, a group of islands in the South Pacific. Many botanists conclude that the best explanation for the large numbers of primitive living angiosperms in the South Pacific region is that this is where the flowering plants first evolved and these modern species are relics of this early evolution. Comparisons of the DNA of Amborella and many hundreds of species of flowering plants suggest that the first angiosperm arose and the development of separate species occurred about 135 million years ago.
7. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
Some botanists who agree with the idea of an African-South American center for the dispersal of angiosperms point to primitive South Pacific angiosperms as evidence.
Some botanists argue that the very primitive forms of angiosperms found in the South Pacific call into question the theory that angiosperm evolution began in Africa and South America.
Angiosperms in Fiji, New Caledonia, New Guinea, eastern Australia, and the Malay Archipelago are more primitive than angiosperms in other parts of the world.
Botanists disagree over whether the most primitive forms of living plants are located in parts of Africa and South America or in the South Pacific.
Paragraph 6
Recently discovered fossils complicate our understanding of the origin of the angiosperms even further. Paleontologists from China have found beautifully preserved fossils of an angiosperm plant, including flowers and seeds, in Jurassic period deposits from China. The site, which is about 130 million years old, is near modern Beijing. The new fossil plant found at the site is now the oldest known angiosperm. The age of the fossils and the very primitive features of the flowers have led the discoverers to suggest that the earliest flowering plants may have evolved in northern Asia.
8. According to paragraph 6, which of the following is true of angiosperm fossils discovered in China?
They have made it even more challenging to understand the origin of angiosperms.
They contain flowers that appear modern for the age of the fossils.
They convinced most botanists that angiosperms did not originate in northern Asia.
They are not as old as angiosperm fossils discovered in the South Pacific.
Paragraph 2
What type of plant was the ancestor to the angiosperms? Most botanists now agree that the flowering plants are monophyletic in origin, meaning that they evolved from a common ancestor. Some paleontologists have suggested that the common ancestor may have been a type of cycad (palmlike tropical plants). Other paleontologists maintain that the angiosperms may have evolved from seed-bearing ferns. Finally, analysis of the morphological traits of some primitive living plants suggests that the ancestor may have been related to the modern pines. The question of angiosperm ancestry remains unresolved.
9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
But their origin and evolution have been under considerable dispute.
Where would the sentence best fit?
10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.
Despite many years of research, some basic questions about the history of angiosperms remain unanswered.
Answer Choices
One of the major difficulties of studying angiosperm evolution is that fossils from angiosperms are very rarely discovered.
Fossil evidence led some botanists to conclude that angiosperms first evolved in the tropics and spread outward toward the poles.
Emerging research from fossils in South America, the South Pacific, and Asia suggests that the first angiosperms appeared more recently than was once believed.
Though the original ancestor of angiosperms is unknown, they existed at least by the Early Cretaceous and eventually made up most of the plants on Earth.
Early Cretaceous fossil deposits have confirmed that the ancestor to the angiosperms was a plant resembling the modern magnolia.
The study of living angiosperms in the South Pacific and new fossil discoveries in China have led to new theories about where angiosperms first evolved.

How Herding Can Provide Safety
In open grasslands there is no place for a large animal to hide. Thus a watchful grazing animal will see the slight movement that betrays the presence of a predator long before it is close enough to launch an attack. It sounds as though the hunters (predators) stand no chance at all. Unfortunately for the grazers, life is not so simple, however. A grazing animal must lower its head and look at the ground to feed. Its attention may be occupied for only a few seconds before it raises its head and resumes its watch while chewing the food it took, but hunters are patient and skillful and are concentrating intensely. Those few seconds provide time enough to advance a few steps and then freeze, body flattened against the ground. It may take hours, but eventually these repeated small advances will put the hunter within range—close enough to outrun its prey—and the long time the hunt has taken will have been worthwhile, because the resulting feast will be highly nutritious.
Clearly the grazers are at a disadvantage, because while they eat they are vulnerable to attack. The hunters also have a weakness, however, and it is one that allows the grazers to survive. Hunters can attack only one prey animal at a time. This applies even to the predators that hunt as a team, such as lionesses, wolves, and hunting dogs. Their hunt involves running down or ambushing an individual. Teamwork allows them to hunt animals much bigger and stronger than themselves and to hunt more successfully, but it does not allow them to attack more than one individual at a time.
The grazers exploit this weakness by making it as difficult as they can for the predators to choose an individual as a target. They do not graze alone, scattered widely across the landscape, but together, as a herd. The approaching hunter sees not a solitary animal, but a crowd of animals, all of them moving, so they are constantly crossing and recrossing each other’s paths. No sooner does the hunter choose an individual than another animal has crossed in front of it and the target has disappeared into the herd. From the hunter’s point of view this is highly confusing behavior—as, indeed, it is meant to be.
There is another advantage to the grazers. A herd is much more alert than a solitary animal. An animal has to relax its guard while it is taking food, but in a herd there are at any time some animals with their heads down, biting, and others, with their heads up, watching. What is more, those with their heads up are looking in different directions so that together they are alert to any movement anywhere on the landscape around them. There is no way for a hunter to approach a herd unobserved. When a member of the herd spots trouble, it starts to move away.
Other members of the herd move with it and the entire herd starts to move. If the trouble is serious and close, the herd will run. The individual raising the alarm is simply protecting itself, but in doing so it is warming all of the others.
Herding is highly successful, provided members of the herd stay together in a tight bunch. The hunter moves with the herd, watching for an individual to wander away from the others. When that happens, it tries to move between that individual and the rest of the herd, preventing it from rejoining. Once it has done that the hunter has a good chance of making a kill. If the herd starts to run, a solitary hunter may abandon the chase, but a pack of wolves or hunting dogs will regard the running herd of animals as an opportunity and set off in pursuit. As the herd runs, one or two old or sick animals, or young animals that become separated from their mothers, may fall behind.
As soon as the hunter or hunters seize their prey, they lose interest in all other grazers since then they, too, must concentrate on eating, at which point the herd stops running, those who were left behind rejoin the group, and they all resume grazing.
Paragraph 1
In open grasslands there is no place for a large animal to hide. Thus a watchful grazing animal will see the slight movement that betrays the presence of a predator long before it is close enough to launch an attack. It sounds as though the hunters (predators) stand no chance at all. Unfortunately for the grazers, life is not so simple, however. A grazing animal must lower its head and look at the ground to feed. Its attention may be occupied for only a few seconds before it raises its head and resumes its watch while chewing the food it took, but hunters are patient and skillful and are concentrating intensely. Those few seconds provide time enough to advance a few steps and then freeze, body flattened against the ground. It may take hours, but eventually these repeated small advances will put the hunter within range—close enough to outrun its prey—and the long time the hunt has taken will have been worthwhile, because the resulting feast will be highly nutritious.
1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following presents a serious difficulty for the predators that hunt animals grazing in grasslands?
It is difficult to find grazers in grasslands when they are feeding with their heads down.
Predators lack places to hide from prey in grasslands.
It is difficult for predators to outrun grazers on grasslands.
Grazers in open grasslands tend to be very large animals.
2. Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about grazing animals?
They spend significantly more time looking down at the ground than they do with their heads raised.
They tend to remain within a relatively small area for extended periods of time.
They are extremely difficult for predators to see as long as they remain motionless.
They can run significantly faster than most of their predators.
Paragraph 2
Clearly the grazers are at a disadvantage, because while they eat they are vulnerable to attack. The hunters also have a weakness, however, and it is one that allows the grazers to survive. Hunters can attack only one prey animal at a time. This applies even to the predators that hunt as a team, such as lionesses, wolves, and hunting dogs. Their hunt involves running down or ambushing an individual. Teamwork allows them to hunt animals much bigger and stronger than themselves and to hunt more successfully, but it does not allow them to attack more than one individual at a time.
3. According to paragraph 2, what is an advantage to predators that hunt as a team?
A team can kill animals that are much bigger and stronger than any of the predators could take on by itself.
A team can ambush their prey without having to run them down as an individual predator has to do.
A team can attack more prey animals at one time than an individual predator could.
A team is less vulnerable to an aggressive response from grazers.
4. In paragraph 2, why does the author describe the hunting technique used by predators that hunt as a team?
To explain why predators that hunt as a team wait until grazers start eating to attack
To argue that species that hunt as a team do not have the same weakness as individual predators
To emphasize that even predators that hunt in groups cannot hunt and attack more than one prey at a time
To help explain why grazers are at a particular disadvantage with certain predatory animals
Paragraph 4
There is another advantage to the grazers. A herd is much more alert than a solitary animal. An animal has to relax its guard while it is taking food, but in a herd there are at any time some animals with their heads down, biting, and others, with their heads up, watching. What is more, those with their heads up are looking in different directions so that together they are alert to any movement anywhere on the landscape around them. There is no way for a hunter to approach a herd unobserved. When a member of the herd spots trouble, it starts to move away. Other members of the herd move with it and the entire herd starts to move. If the trouble is serious and close, the herd will run. The individual raising the alarm is simply protecting itself, but in doing so it is warming all of the others.
5. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 4 as a way in which animals that graze as a herd benefit?
Some animals in the herd will be in a position to observe danger while others have their heads down.
Each animal in a herd tries to protect the others from danger.
As a herd, animals can observe the landscape in a variety of directions at once.
The movement of any animal away from potential trouble warns all of the other animals within the herd.
Paragraph 5
Herding is highly successful, provided members of the herd stay together in a tight bunch. The hunter moves with the herd, watching for an individual to wander away from the others. When that happens, it tries to move between that individual and the rest of the herd, preventing it from rejoining. Once it has done that the hunter has a good chance of making a kill. If the herd starts to run, a solitary hunter may abandon the chase, but a pack of wolves or hunting dogs will regard the running herd of animals as an opportunity and set off in pursuit. As the herd runs, one or two old or sick animals, or young animals that become separated from their mothers, may fall behind.
4.	The wordList "provided" in the passage is closest in meaning to
if
because
unless
therefore
6. According to paragraph 5, any member of a herd is most at risk from predators when
it is very young
it becomes separated from the others
the herd includes relatively few old or sick animals
the herd begins to run
Paragraph 6
As soon as the hunter or hunters seize their prey, they lose interest in all other grazers since then they, too, must concentrate on eating, at which point the herd stops running, those who were left behind rejoin the group, and they all resume grazing.
12. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
The hunter or hunters are interested only in seizing their prey and not in any of the rest of the grazers in the herd.
Because the hunters must concentrate on eating once they make a kill, the rest of the herd can then stop running and resume grazing.
Once the hunters finish eating their prey, they lose interest in the rest of the herd that was left behind.
Because they must also concentrate on eating, herd animals resume grazing as soon as the hunter or hunters seize their prey.
Paragraph 1
In open grasslands there is no place for a large animal to hide. Thus a watchful grazing animal will see the slight movement that betrays the presence of a predator long before it is close enough to launch an attack. It sounds as though the hunters (predators) stand no chance at all. Unfortunately for the grazers, life is not so simple, however. A grazing animal must lower its head and look at the ground to feed. Its attention may be occupied for only a few seconds before it raises its head and resumes its watch while chewing the food it took, but hunters are patient and skillful and are concentrating intensely. Those few seconds provide time enough to advance a few steps and then freeze, body flattened against the ground. It may take hours, but eventually these repeated small advances will put the hunter within range—close enough to outrun its prey—and the long time the hunt has taken will have been worthwhile, because the resulting feast will be highly nutritious.
9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
This is because grasslands lack the trees and heavy bush to provide cover for anything but very small animals.
Where would the sentence best fit?
10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.
Grazing in a herd rather than as solitary individuals decreases the risk to grazers from predators.
If a grazer can spot a predator before it actually attacks, the grazer has a very good chance of getting away and since grasslands provide little cover for predators, the grazer always has the advantage.
Hunters can attack only one grazer at a time, and where there are many animals moving back and forth and grazing together in a herd, it is difficult for hunters to maintain their focus on a single target.
When a member of a herd wanders away from the others or falls behind as the herd runs from danger, a hunter who manages to get between it and the herd stands a good chance of making a kill.
A grazer cannot watch for danger while feeding, so predators can use those moments gradually to approach a solitary animal unobserved, but in a herd there will always be some animals on alert.
When a herd of grazers spots the approach of a solitary hunter, it may run toward the hunter, which generally causes it to abandon the chase, but predators hunting as a pack are not so easily driven away.
After a herd of running animals sees that the hunters pursuing it have stopped, the herd tries to help members of the group that were left behind.

Section1
Conversation 1
1.What is the conversation mainly about?
A grant the student wants to apply for
The student's proposed plan for a class assignment
A project presented in a DVD the class watched
The student’s part- time job at a hotel

2. What does the student ask the professor to allow her to do?
Take extra time on her project
Write a grant rather than a paper
Work with a partner on an assignment
Use her job as the focus of her project

3. Why does the professor mention a science conference?
To suggest that the student attend it
To indicate that he is familiar with the hotel
To state where he got information about a new discovery
To state where he got the video that he showed in class

4. According to the conversation why might the campus managers be slow to adopt environmentally friendly policies?
They are concerned that their customers may not be happy with the changes
They are not knowledgeable about the potential benefits
No financial help is available or reducing the initial cost of making the changes
They have trod to adopt such policies and found them of little use

5. What concern does the professor express?
That the hotel manager might not allow the research to take place at the hotel
That Jessica Smith might be too busy with her job to do the project
That the student's idea for the project is overly ambitious
That the student might not focus on fulfilling all the requirements of the project

Lecture1
6. What is the lecture mainly about?
The influence of private art galleries on public museums
The role of art museums as teaching institutions for artists
The debate about the Louvre's opening to the public
The early history of the public art museum

7. Why does the professor mention that artists were allowed to visit the Louvre every day
Click on 2 answers
To point out that the public museum was conceived as a place for studying
To indicate that all citizens were able to visit the museum whenever they wanted
To question why certain artists did not spend time at the Louvre
To contrast the accessibility of art in the Louvre with that of art in private museums

8. Why does the professor mention the French Revolution?
To name an event depicted in Alexandre Lenoir's artwork
To identify the theme of an exhibit room in the Louvre
To explain why art storehouses were created
To help explain some peoples attitude toward public museums

9. According to the professor, what major contribution did Alexandre Lenoir make to the art community?
He donated many original paintings to public museums
He developed a systematic way of exhibiting art in museums
He invented a unique way to restore damaged artwork
He designed a national monument in post Revolution France

10.The professor gives an example of a painting made in an Italian seaside village According to the professor, what would some skeptics say about the painting?
It should not be exhibited unless it appeals to people from a variety of cultures
It should not be moved out of the geographic area in which it was created
It should be exhibited in the Louvre before traveling to any other museum
It should always be grouped with similar paintings in a museum

Question 11 of 17
What opinion about public art museums does the professor express?
They focus too much on entertainment and not enough on education
They are more important to artists than to the general public
Their way of exhibiting artwork needs to be modernized
They succeed in allowing varied works of art to be appreciated in a centralized location


Lecture2
12. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
To compare the effects of different types of exercise on learning
To analyze the relationship between exercise and cardiovascular health
To discuss research suggesting that exercise promotes cognitive function
To elaborate on the importance of vigorous exercise in stress management

13. What did researchers decide to investigate as a result of the research on songbirds?
Whether new neurons could develop in the adult human brain
Which cognitive processes played the biggest role in increasing songbirds’ ability to learn
new songs
Which brain chemicals were involved in neurogenesis in songbirds
What role exposure to music plays in human brain development

14. What is the professor’s opinion about the research findings on rats that were administered BDNF?
The findings should be used with caution when making claims about the role of BDNF in human fetal development
The findings suggest that BDNF may play a role in the development of neurons in humans
The findings indicate that BDNF probably hindered rats ability to generate new neurons
The findings show that BDNF probably did not ep rats remember how to perform certain tasks

15. What does the professor imply may be important to prevent new neurons from dying in adult humans?
Vigorous exercise regimens
Mentally stimulating learning environments
Avoidance of radical weight gain or loss
A healthy cardiovascular system


16. What point does the professor make when she discusses stress hormones?
Different individuals need different amounts of stress hormones for optimal brain function
Learning is more likely to occur in individuals who are completely relaxed
Elevated stress hormones may indicate a need for more frequent exercise
Moderate exercise regimens may be more beneficial than extreme exercise regimens

17. Why does the professor say this?
To signal that she will provide examples of studies that conlict with popular notions about exercise
To prompt the students to think about other benefits of exercise
To imply that t s unnecessary o give additional examples to support her statement about exercise
To make the point that the health benefits of exercise are somewhat exaggerated

Section2
Conversation 2
1.	Why did the adviser ask the student to meet with him?
To express concern about her academic performance
To discuss her course choices for the following semester
To find out why she dropped a course
To ask if she had changed her major course of study

2.	What did the adviser do to get more information before meeting with the student?
He requested a record of the students grades in all her art classes
He consulted a description of the course about Islamic art.
He obtained a list of courses in which the student is enrolled
He checked the requirements for art history students

3.	What do the speakers imply about the Islamic art course?
It is an introductory course
It can be taken only in combination with an Islamic history course
Students need a recommendation from their academic adviser to take it.
Most students are required to take an introductory art history course before taking it

4.	What does the adviser imply about the meetings he has with students at the beginning of the semester?
They should be scheduled at least two weeks in advance
They can help students avoid problems with their class schedules
Faculty members must be invited to the meetings
They are necessary only when a student has a problem

5.	What does the adviser suggest that the student do?
Click on 2 answers
Make up the work she has missed
Contact the registrar's office
Apologize to an art history professor
Drop the Islamic art course



Lecture 3
6.What is the main purpose of the lecture?
To compare current theories about an astronomical phenomenon
To describe the growth of knowledge about an astronomical phenomenon
To illustrate how astronomical theories based on incorrect assumptions can lead to important discoveries
To demonstrate that astronomers are able to predict events on the Sun based on conditions on Earth

7.According to the professor, what theories were proposed in the 1700 to account for the occurrence of auroras?
Click on 2 answers
Auroras are caused by bright refracting off ice and snow
Auroras are caused by CMEs
Auroras occur when gases from sunspots hit glaciers
Auroras occur when an electric current between Earths poles s disrupted

8. Why does the professor mention the duration of solar eclipses?
To demonstrate the importance of the coronagraph as a research tool
To describe the effects of solar eclipses on auroras
To support a conclusion about the connection between sunspot cycles and other solar events
To explain why auroras are infrequent

9. How do sunspots contribute to auroras?
Sunspots increase the intensity of Earth's magnetic field at the poles
Sunspots emit charged particles that collide with atoms in Earth’s upper atmosphere
Sunspots bombard Earth with oxygen and nitrogen atoms
Sunspots cause temperature changes at Earths poles

10. What point does the professor make when he talks about disruptions to technology?
Disruptions are more prevalent in the northern hemisphere than in the southern hemisphere
Observing aurora activity has proven to be a better way to predict CMES than using technological devices
CMES and other magnetic activity on the Sun can have a far-reaching effect
Most information about aurora intensity has been obtained through observation with the naked eye

11. Why does the professor say this
He hopes that one of the students will explain the answer to the others
He believes that the answer should be obvious to the students
He thinks the point is not relevant to today's lecture
He does not remember if he covered the point in another lecture


Question 1 of 4

Some people like to specifically plan how they will spend their free time. Others prefer to keep their free time open and not schedule activities in advance. Which do you prefer and why?


Question 2 of 4

Reading Time: 45 seconds

Volunteer Work Within the Community

State University will now require all students to complete ten hours of volunteer work in the local community before graduating. Serving as a volunteer is not only helpful to communities, but also beneficial and convenient for students. When they take time to help others, students experience a deep sense of satisfaction. This sense of fulfillment leads them to continue working within their communities. Furthermore, volunteering will be convenient for students. There are a number of nearby organizations in need of student volunteers, so students can easily arrange to work locally.


The woman expresses her opinion of the university's new policy. State her opinion and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion

Preparation Time: 30 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds


Question 3 of 4

Reading Time: 50 seconds

Ecosystem Resilience

An ecosystem is a local environment with its complex community of organisms functioning together as a unit. An ecosystem can be damaged by natural disasters or by human activity. If the ecosystem has a limited variety of species, then destroying even one species of plant or animal can change the ecosystem forever. A resilient ecosystem, however, is able o restore itself to its original pre-disturbance condition. Resilience in an ecosystem is possible when the ecosystem is populated by a large variety of species: if one species is eliminated by a disturbance, other species are able to take the place of that species, which allows the ecosystem to avoid long-term change.


Using the coral reed as an example, explain what it means for an ecosystem to be resilient.

Preparation Time: 30 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds



Question 4 of 4

Using points and examples from the talk, explain what psychologists have learned about the information of bonds between infants and their caregivers.

Preparation Time: 20 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds

Because of climate change, more and more and that was once used to grow crops or provide food for animals is turning to dry, unusable desert land. There are many proposals about how to stop this process, known as desertification. A number of proposals involve growing trees, because trees can help protect soil and provide many other benefits to fight against desertification. Some scientists have proposed that the best way to grow trees in dry areas in danger of desertification is by using a box-shaped device surrounding the young tree The device collects water that condenses from vapor in the atmosphere and helps the tree to grow. However, other scientists believe that this device will not be successful in fighting against desertification for the following reasons.

First, at a cost of 25 US dollars each, the device would make owing trees a prohibitively expensive process. Meaningful efforts to fight desertification involve growing millions of trees. Some countries mostly affected by desertification cannot afford to buy devices for millions of trees.

Second, plans for fighting against desertification involve asking local people to install and maintain the devices. People living in some of the areas most affected by desertification work long days in harsh conditions, sometimes barely managing to provide food for their families. It would be difficult to motivate these people to look after trees that cannot serve as a source of food for them.

Third, the devices ability to collect and conserve water is limited. Each one provided only enough water to keep a small tree alive. Trees that have outgrown the device have to deal with unforgiving environmental conditions on their own. In some places where the devices are being tired, six months can pass without a drop of rain. Once the trees become too big for the device hey may not be able to survive in such a harsh environment.

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
When classmates or colleagues communicate about a project in person instead of by e-mail, they will produce better work for the project.

conversation 1
1 What is the conversation mainly about?
The best career for philosophy majors
The arguments made by two philosophers
Why the student should continue studying philosophy
Why the student should look for an internship in philosophy

2 What does the professor imply about studying business?
It will improve the student's chances of being accepted into graduate school.
It may not be a wise choice for the student.
It could help the student clarify her career goals.
There may be fewer jobs in this field than the student thinks.

3 Why does the student mention Johnson and Berkeley?
To cast doubt on something the professor said
To get the professor’s opinion about a topic from class
To indicate that she wishes to change the subject
To check whether she has understood a philosophical argument

4 What does the student imply about Johnson’s argument?
It is more convincing than Berkeley’s argument
It disproves an accepted theory
It demonstrates the existence of physical matter
It fails to prove the point he was trying to make

5 Why does the professor tell the student to go to the career services office?
To research summer internship opportunities
To ask how to include her skills on her resume
To read job descriptions for careers in philosophy
To confirm that her skills are valuable to employers


conversation 2
1 What is the conversation mainly about?
Collecting membership fees for a student club
Arrangements for an upcoming student trip
A recent performance by a famous jazz group
Finding a good restaurant in the city

2 Why do the students want to get to the theater early?
To purchase their concert tickets
To avoid rush hour traffic
To be able to get good seats
To have time to eat dinner

3 What is woman’s attitude toward the students’ plan to eat separately?
She is convinced that there will be problems
She approved because they will not be able to get a reservation for such a large group
She does not believe that they have planned enough time to eat separately\
She thinks it would be cheaper if they had dinner together

4 Why does the man change the time that the vans will meet the students after the concert?
To reduce the cost of parking
To get students home in time to study
To make sure that no student will be left behind

5 What information will the woman give the man tomorrow?
The cost of the concert ticket
The hourly charges for van drivers
The amount of money the students need to deposit
The amount of money the students still owe


L1
1 Why does the professor discuss Jackson Pollock?
To point out a common misconception about Abstract Expressionism
To help students understand the nature of abstract expressionism
To compare Pollock’s technique to that of other Abstract Expressionism painters
To defend Pollock and the Abstract Expressionism from criticism

2 What point does the professor make about Jackson Pollock’s training as an artist?
It motivated him to rebel against art he claimed was boring
It contrasts with the type of art he later created
It taught him how to paint using unconventional methods
It was very different from the type of training most artists receive

3 What were two features of Jackson Pollock's painting technique?
Click on 2 answers
He used walls as a painting surface.
He painted the canvas while it was on the floor
He applied paint by pouring or dripping it.
He allowed visitors at his studio to help with the painting.

4 What is the professor's attitude toward the term “action painting"?
He thinks it correctly describes Pollack's painting technique.
He considers it less appropriate for Pollock than for other Abstract Expressionists.
He believes that it represents the sense of movement displayed in Pollock's paintings.
He is pleased that contemporary critics rarely use the term.

5 What feature of Autumn Rhythm does the professor imply is representative of Pollock's works?
It symbolizes the passage of time.
It reveals a lack of control over emotions.
It combines structure and the appearance of chaos.
It combines tradition and innovation.

6 Why does the professor discuss photography?
To emphasize how different it is from painting
To make a point about its increasing popularity in New York's art world
To show the extent of Pollock's influence
To support his argument about the way people look at Pollock's paintings
 
L2

1 X What does the professor mainly discuss?
Conditions that led to the extinction of the archaeopteryx
The adaptation of the archaeopteryx to its environment
Research on the archaeopteryx as an example of the typical dinosaur
The importance of the archaeopteryx in the study of the evolution of birds

2 According to the professor, why was the first archaeopteryx fossil of unusually high quality?
The fossil was not exposed to harsh weather conditions that could have damaged it
Archaeopteryx bones preserve more successfully than the bones of other birds.
The stone in which the fossil was found was composed of very fine particles.
The archaeopteryx was fossilized more recently than other ancient birds found in fossils.

3 Why does the professor mention the Mona Lisa?
To argue that examining fossils is a process that requires great attention to detail
To point out that the archaeopteryx fossils can be interpreted in different ways
To demonstrate that no one fully understands the process of bird fossilization
To persuade the class that the archaeopteryx was a particularly beautiful bird


4 What point does the professor make about the tail of the archaeopteryx?
It was the only part of the archaeopteryx not preserved in fossils.
It is the reason that the archaeopteryx is classified as a bird.
It was very different from the tails of modern birds.
It is the reason ornithologists believe the archaeopteryx could fly.

5 What is the professor's attitude toward the recent research on fossils discovered in China?
She is inclined to believe the results of the research.
She has not yet formed any opinion about the study because it is incomplete.
She is upset that the study's conclusions contradicted her own opinions.
She doubts that the study will help answer questions about the archaeopteryx.

6 Why does the professor say this
To indicate that she disagrees with other researchers
To acknowledge that her explanation may have been unclear
To warn the student about a common misunderstanding
To suggest that the student should listen more carefully


 
L3
1 What aspect of archaeology in Iceland does the professor mainly discuss?
Various techniques for dating archaeological sites
Causes of damage to a Viking-era house
Evidence of early agricultural tools
A method for locating buried structures

2 According to the professor, why are the remains of old Icelandic houses difficult for archaeologists to find?
The remains cannot be detected by a remote sensing tool
The remains are located in areas that are now covered by glaciers
The houses were made of material that is similar to the soil around them
The houses were extremely small

3 Why does the professor discuss Icelandic sagas about Viking explorers?
To help explain archaeologists' interest in Iceland
To help the students understand the climate of Iceland
To compare the geography of Iceland to that of North America
To provide an overview of the history of archaeology

4 Why does the student say this:
He thinks that the professor may have already answered his question
He wants the professor to repeat what she just said
He is sorry that he missed last week's lecture.
He cannot hear what the professor is saying.

5 According to the professor, what kind of data does the remote sensing tool provide?
The approximate age of different types of buried structures
The electrical conductivity of the ground at different locations
The chemical composition of different types of soil and peat
The temperature of the ground at different depths

6 What is the significance of the building that was found by using the remote sensing tool?
It might have been the first museum in Iceland.
It might have been built with materials from North America.
It may help prove that a story from the Icelandic sagas is true
It may be the only building in Iceland built of compressed peat
 

Alfred Wegener's Theory of Continental Drift
In 1912, the German geologist Alfred Wegener proposed that Earths continents are mobile rafts of lighter crust that have shifted over time by plowing their way through the denser crust of the oceans. The theory, called continental drift, was partly motivated by the apparent fit, like puzzle pieces, of the coastlines of South America and Africa. Wegener first presented his theory of continental drift at a meeting and in a paper, and then as a book, The Origin of Continents and Oceans, published in 1915. He continued to write updated versions of this work until his death in an ill-fated expedition to Greenland in 1930. Wegener maintained that Earth is composed of concentric shells of increasing density from crust to core. The outermost shell is not continuous but made of continental blocks of lighter rock called sial (an acronym for silica and aluminum-rich rock) floating in the denser sima (silica—and magnesia—rich rock) underlying the oceans. All the continents had been joined in the supercontinent of Pangaea. As the continent broke up, the pieces moving apart left bits behind, explaining the presence of nonvolcanic islands and island chains, according to Wegener. Where the moving pieces collided, mountains formed. They were thrust up either by the plowing of the continents through the sima, as in the case of the Andes, or by the colliding of two blocks of sial, as in the case of the Himalayas. As for the force driving continental drift, Wegener initially invoked Polfluchtkraft—a force causing flight from the poles as a result of Earth’s rotation—and later the tidal force resulting from the gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon and Sun.
One of the most influential geologists to join the mobilist camp, as the drifters school became known, was Arthur Holmes. Holmes recognized the importance of radioactive heat—which had recently been discovered—and realized that there must be a mechanism to remove it from Earth’s interior. That mechanism, he argued, is convection—the rising of less dense material and the sinking of more dense material. He went on to propose that the mantle (the part of Earth’s interior below the outer crust and above the core) convects in large, circulating patterns, and that this motion carries the continents across Earth’s surface. He also related crustal movement and mantle convection to the evolution of
mountain belts. Wegener adopted Holmes’s mechanism in the past rendition of his theory Holmes, for his part, presented his grand concept of a dynamic Earth in his influential and popular text Principles of Physical Geology, published in 1944.
Although it was eventually supplanted by the theory of plate tectonics, Wegener’s theory of continental drift influenced science because it explained disparate observations, because it was placed in the context of existing theories, and because it offered a coherent view of Earths evolution. For example, Wegener showed not only that the coastlines on opposite sides of the Atlantic fit together, but that geologic features on the different continents fit as well. He asserted that the Appalachians, which can be traced northward through the Canadian Maritime Provinces, match the Caledonian Mountains in Scotland and Norway. He marshaled evidence from the distributions of fossil and living species to argue that land bridges joining continents were less likely than a single continent. The example commonly cited is that of Mesosaurus, a shoreline scavenger reptile that lived in the Permian period and is found as fossils in rocks on both sides of the South Atlantic Ocean. Mesosaurus was thought not to be a great swimmer, certainly not able to cross an ocean.
Wegener also found supporting evidence in ancient climates. Mounting observations indicated that the past climate of many regions was much different from the present climate. In the tropics, geologists had found sand and gravel left by ancient glaciers, and in rainy regions they had located prehistoric deserts. Then there was the discovery, by a British expedition, of plant fossils only 600 kilometers (370 miles) from the South Pole. Particularly puzzling was evidence suggesting that widely different climates in different regions had occurred at the same time, so one could not account for different climates by claiming simply that the whole of Earth was once hotter or once cooler than now Wegener solved this dilemma by showing that observations of paleoclimate could be explained if the positions of the continents had shifted relative to those of the poles.

1. According to paragraph 1, the presence of nonvolcanic islands was an indication to Wegener that
the sial was lighter than was once believed
a supercontinent that existed at one time broke apart
nonvolcanic islands were formed from the sima rather than the sial
island chains existed prior to the formation of the supercontinent Pangaea

2. Why are the Andes and Himalaya mountains mentioned in the discussion in paragraph 1?
To contrast the ways in which islands and mountains formed
To describe two ways in which movements of land formed mountains
To provide examples of mountain ranges that are no longer in their original locations
To explain the differences between sial and sima with well-known geographic areas

3. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information
Wegener’s term "Polfluchtkraft” was first used to mean Earth’s rotation and later the
gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon and Sun.
Continental drift required a powerful driving force that was created by the combination of Earth's rotation and tidal movements, which Wegener called "Polfluchtkraft.”
At first Wegener believed that the movement of the continents was caused by Earth’ s rotation but later came to believe that the drift was caused by powerful tides.
According to Wegener, the great force of continental drift first affected Earth’s rotation at the poles and later also affected the gravitational force of Earth's tides.

4. What does paragraph 2 suggest about how Holmes influenced Wegener’s thinking?
He encouraged Wegener to consult the geologists who formed the drifters school
He convinced Wegener that the mantle contained a great deal of radioactive heat
He demonstrated to Wegener that the density of geographic material was less important than its pattern of movement
He provided Wegener with a more accurate explanation of the mechanism by which
continents moved and mountains evolved
5. What is the importance of Wegener’s observation that “the Appalachians, which can be traced northward through the Canadian Maritime Provinces match the Caledonian Mountains in Scotland and Norway”?
It provides additional evidence for Wegener’s claim that separate continents were once
connected to each other
It indicates that the mechanism by which all mountainous areas on Earth formed was the same
It suggests that continental drift occurred in a northward direction
It challenges the role of the Atlantic Ocean in shaping continental coastlines

6. The wordList “asserted” in the passage is closest in meaning to
claimed
worried
repeated
doubted

7. Mesosaurus is mentioned in paragraph 3 to make which of the following points?
The presence of its fossils suggests that a land bridge once existed across the South Atlantic Ocean
The fact that a reptilian species scavenged along the shoreline indicates that various species must have been there when reptiles arrived
The dating of its fossils to the Permian period led Wegener to believe that this was the time when major movements of rocks and continents ended
The lack of this species swimming ability supports the idea that the shores where its fossils were found must have been joined at one time

8. What was the dilemma that Wegener solved?
Why prehistoric fossils occurred in deserts but not rainy regions
Whether sand and gravel were once part of ancient glaciers
How to explain great climatic variations occurring at the same time among various regions
Whether the overall temperature of Earth was once hotter or colder

9. Look at the four squares   that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
The publication was met by skepticism from scientists the world over, yet he refused to become discouraged.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage

In 1912, the German geologist Alfred Wegener proposed that Earths continents are mobile rafts of lighter crust that have shifted over time by plowing their way through the denser crust of the oceans.    The theory, called continental drift, was partly motivated by the apparent fit, like puzzle pieces, of the coastlines of South America and Africa.    Wegener first presented his theory of continental drift at a meeting and in a paper, and then as a book, The Origin of Continents and Oceans, published in 1915.    He continued to write updated versions of this work until his death in an ill-fated expedition to Greenland in 1930.             Wegener maintained that Earth is composed of concentric shells of increasing density from crust to core.

10. An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.

Alfred Wegener proposed the theory of continental drift to explain how continents and mountain ranges came into existence.

A. Wegener revised his explanation of the process of continental drift from one based on planetary rotation and tides to one that involved convection.
B. Wegener’s major contribution to our current understanding of how Earth evolved its continental form was his development of the concept of Polfluchtkraft.
C. Among geologists of the time, the work of Arthur Holmes was considered revolutionary but inconsistent with the theory of continental drift as explained by Wegener.
D. The importance of Wegener's theory was its ability to explain both Earth's evolution and a wide range of seemingly odd geographical and biological phenomena.
E. Plant fossils discovered on a British expedition to the South Pole indicated that on the whole, Earth's temperature varied over time from hotter than it is today to colder than it
is today.
F. Evidence of inconsistencies in continental climates observed to have occurred over time or within a particular time makes sense if continents drifted away from the poles.


Representative Government in Colonial North America
Before 1750, colonists in North America had little occasion to think of themselves as a distinct people. There was no American government no single political organization in which all the colonies joined to manage their common concerns. There was not even a wish for such an organization except among a few eccentric individuals. America, to the people who lived in it, was still a geographic region, not a frame of mind.
Asked about nationality, the typical American colonist of 1750 would have said English or British. In spite of substantial numbers of Dutch, Germans and Scotch-Irish, English people and English institutions prevailed in every colony, and most colonists spoke of England as home even though they had never been there. Yet no American institutions were que like their counterparts in England, the heritage of English ideas that went with these institutions was so rich and varied that colonists were able to select and develop those that best suited their situation and forget others that meanwhile were growing prominent in the mother country. This variety sometimes led to regional differences: in some ways New Englanders were set off from Virginians even more than from people in England. But some ideas, institutions and attitudes became common in all the colonies and remained uncommon in England. Although colonial Englishmen were not yet aware that they shared these Americanisms with one another or that English people in England did not share them, many of the characteristic ideas and attitudes that later distinguished United States nationalism were already present by the mid-eighteenth century.
English people brought with them to the New World the political ideas that still give English and American government a close resemblance. But American colonists very early developed conceptions of representative government that differed from those in England. Representative government in England originated in the Middle Ages, when the king called for men to advise him. They were chosen by their neighbors and informed the king of his subject’s wishes. Eventually, their advice became so compelling that the king could not reject it, and the representatives of the people, organized as a legislature known as the House of Commons, became the most powerful branch of the English government.
At first, the House of Commons consisted of representatives from each county, or shire, and from selected boroughs. Over the centuries many of these boroughs became ghost towns with only a handful of inhabitants, and great towns sprang up where none had existed before. Yet the old boroughs continued to send members to the House of Commons, and the new towns sent none. Moreover, only a fraction of the English population could participate even in county elections. In order to vote, a man had to own property that would, if rented, yield him at east 40 shillings yearly. Few could meet the test. A number of English people thought the situation absurd and said so. But nothing was done to improve it; in fact, a theory was devised to justify it. A member of the House of Commons, it was said, represented not the people who chose him but the whole country, and he was not responsible for any particular constituency. Not all Englishmen could vote for representatives, but all were virtually represented by every member of the Commons.
The assemblies of American colonial representatives were more democratic. Although every colony had property qualifications for voting. probably the great majority of adult while males owned enough land to meet them. Moreover, the system for apportioning representation was more balanced. New England colonies gave every town the night to send delegates to the legislature. Outside New England, the unit of representation was usually the county. The political organization of new counties and the extension of representation seldom kept pace with the rapid advance of settlement westward, but nowhere was representation so uneven or irrational as in England.
American colonists knew nothing of virtual representation. A colonial representative was supposed to be an agent of the people who chose him. He was supposed to look after their interests first and those of the colony second. In New England, where town meetings could be called at any time, people often gathered to tell their delegate how to vote on a particular issue.


1. According to paragraphs 1 and 2, all of the following were true of most English people living in the American colonies in 1750 EXCEPT
They did not feel the need for an American government for all the colonies
They had never been to England
They believed they had much in common with non-English colonists
They did not think of themselves as Americans

2. The wordList “prevailed” in the passage is closest in meaning to
remained
decreased
united
dominated

3. According to paragraph 2, what is one reason that regional differences arose in the English colonies of North America?
Colonists selected and adapted English institutions to their particular needs
Colonists in each region wanted to distinguish their institutions from those of colonists elsewhere
The large number of German Dutch and Scotch- Irish colonists settling in some regions resisted political and social change
Colonists in different regions reacted differently to developments becoming prominent in England

4. According to paragraph 3, how did representative government get started in England?
The king chose a representative group of people to inform him of his subjects’ wishes
The king's subjects chose a group of representatives in response to the king’s request for advisors
The king organized a legislature known as the House of Commons
A group of representatives of the people took power from the king and passed their own laws



5. The wordList “absurd” in the passage is closest in meaning to
dangerous
illegal
inefficient
ridiculous

6. According to paragraph 4, what was the response to criticisms of representative government in England?
Efforts were made to make the system better
Criticisms of the system were completely ignored
An explanation was created to defend the system
Critics of the system were widely viewed as unpatriotic

7. Why does the author mention that “The political organization of new counties and the extension of representation seldom kept pace with the rapid advance of settlement westward, but nowhere was representation so uneven or irrational as in England.”?
To emphasize that, overall, the American colonial assemblies were more democratic than the assemblies of England
To explain why outside of New England the unit of political representation was the county
rather than the town
To argue that while the political representation of the American colonies was irrational, it was still better than representation in England
To remind the reader that the American colonies showed the weaknesses as well as the
strengths of England's system of representation

8. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

This development occurred primarily for two reasons.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage

The assemblies of American colonial representatives were more democratic.   Although every colony had property qualifications for voting. probably the great majority of adult while males owned enough land to meet them.    Moreover, the system for apportioning representation was more balanced.    New England colonies gave every town the night to send delegates to the legislature.    Outside New England, the unit of representation was usually the county. The political organization of new counties and the extension of representation seldom kept pace with the rapid advance of settlement westward, but nowhere was representation so uneven or irrational as in England.




9. Directions: Match the statements about representative government to the correct location. Two of the statements describe representative government in England ONLY, two describe representative government in the English colonies ONLY, and one describes BOTH England and the English colonies in America. One of the statements will NOT be used. This question is worth 3 points.

England ONLY:

English colonies in America ONLY:

BOTH England and the English colonies in America:

Answer Choices

A. Delegates to the legislature represented everyone, not just the people who elected them.

B. A person had to own property worth a certain amount to be able to elect delegates to the legislature.

C. Some large towns had no power to send delegates to the legislature.

D. A large majority of adult males in the population met the qualifications for voting.

E. Counties could generally send more delegates to the legislature than could towns.

F. In some places, citizens met to tell delegates how to vote on specific issues.

Urban Heat Islands

Climatic changes such as changes in temperature, precipitation humidity, or wind speed that are produced by urbanization involve all major surface conditions. Some of these changes are quite obvious and relatively easy to measure. Others are more subtle and sometimes difficult to measure. The amount of change in any of these elements, at any time, depends on several variables, including the extent of the urban complex, the nature of industry, site factors such as topography and proximity to water bodies, time of day, and existing weather conditions.

The most studied and well-documented an climatic effect is the urban heat island. The term simply refers to the fact that temperatures within cities are generally higher than in rural areas. The heat island is evident when temperature data are examined. For example, the distribution of average minimum temperatures in the Washington, D. C., metropolitan area for the three-month winter period (December through February) over a five-year span, clearly represents a well-developed heat island. The warmest winter temperatures occurred in the heart of the city, while the suburbs and surrounding countryside experienced average minimum temperatures that were as much as 3.3℃ lower. Remember that these temperatures are averages, because on many clear, calm nights the temperature difference between the city center and the countryside was considerably greater, often 11℃or more. Conversely, on many overcast or windy nights the temperature differential approached zero degrees.

The radical change in the surface that results when rural areas are transformed into cities is a significant cause of the urban heat island. First, the tall buildings and the concrete and asphalt of the city absorb and store greater quantities of solar radiation than do the vegetation and soil typical of rural areas. In addition, because the city surface is impermeable, the runoff of water following a rain is rapid, resulting in a severe reduction in the evaporation rate. Hence, heat that once would have been used to convert liquid water to a gas now goes to increase the surface temperature. At night, while both the city and the countryside cool by radiative losses, the stone-like surface of the city gradually releases the additional heat accumulated during the day, keeping the urban air warmer than that of the outlying areas.

A portion of the urban temperature rise must also be attributed to waste heat from sources such as home heating and air conditioning, power generation industry, and transportation. Many studies have shown that the magnitude of human-generated energy in metropolitan areas is great when compared to the amount of energy received from the Sun at the surface. For example, investigations in Sheffield, England, and Berlin, Germany, showed that the annual heat production in those cities was equal to approximately one-third of that received from solar radiation. Another study of densely built-up Manhattan in New York City revealed that during the winter, the quantity of heat produced by combustion alone was 2 ½ times greater than the amount of solar energy reaching the ground. In summer, the figure dropped to 1/6.

There are other, somewhat less influential, causes of the heat island. For example, the blanket of Mutants over a city contributes to the heat island by absorbing a portion of the upward-directed long-wave radiation emitted at the surface and re-emitting some of it back to the ground. A somewhat similar effect results from the complex thee-dimensional structure of the city. The vertical walls of office buildings, stores, and apartments do not allow radiation to escape as readily as in outlying rural areas where surfaces are relatively flat. As the sides of these structures emit their stored heat, a portion is re-radiated between buildings rather than upward, and is therefore slowly dissipated. In addition to re-radiating the heat loss from the city, tall buildings also alter the flow of air. Because of the greater surface roughness, wind speeds within an urban area are reduced. Estimates from available records suggest a decrease on the order of about 25 percent from rural values. The lower wind speeds decrease the city’s ventilation by inhibiting the movement of cooler outside air which, if allowed to penetrate, would reduce the higher temperatures of the city center.

1. The wordList “proximity” in the passage is closest in meaning to
distribution
contamination
exposure
closeness

2. What can be inferred from paragraph 2 about the phenomenon of the urban heat island?
It occurs in rural areas to the same extent as urban areas.
It is influenced by variations in weather.
It increases the cloud cover over the city.
It produces a lot of wind at night.


3. According to paragraph 2, temperatures in the city and the surrounding areas are likely to be about the same
during the months of December through February
when averaged over a five-year span
on clear, calm nights
on cloudy, windy nights

4. Which of the following is NOT mentioned in paragraph 3 as a contributing cause of urban heat islands ?
The effects of tall buildings and hard surfaces
The effects of vegetation on soil
The rapid runoff of water
The slow loss of nighttime heat

5. What can be inferred from paragraph 3 about rainwater in rural areas as compared to urban areas?
The evaporation rate of rainwater in rural areas is greater than it is in urban areas.
The runoff of rainwater is more rapid in rural areas than it is in urban areas.
Rural areas require more rainwater in order to cool down than urban areas do.
Rural areas experience greater problems when rainwater evaporates than urban areas do.

6. What purpose does paragraph 4 serve in the larger discussion of temperatures within urban areas?
To argue that certain urban areas produce more waste heat than others
To examine the impact of solar radiation on temperatures in large urban areas
To show how human-generated energy contributes to the urban heat island effect
To point out the rate at which urban heat islands have increased over time

7. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
Pollutants hanging over a city contribute to the urban heat island effect by forcing solar radiation directly upward from the surface of Earth.
Air pollution contributes to rising temperatures in cities by reflecting a certain amount of radiation it has absorbed from Earth's surface back to Earth.
Earth’s surface absorbs long-wave radiation that is emitted by polluted air in Earths atmosphere.
Earth sends some of the heat that it has absorbed into the air where it is then absorbed by pollutants.

8. According to paragraph 5, which of the following statements is true about air flowing through a city?
Its speed is comparable to that in the countryside.
The movement of air is reduced by urban buildings.
It allows the city to cool down thoroughly at night.
It penetrates most quickly in urban areas with the tallest buildings.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

This simple observation was first made in the early 1800s when an amateur meteorologist observed that central London was warmer than its outskirts, and the phenomenon was later studied more extensively.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

The term urban heat island describes the increased temperatures found in large cities as compared to rural areas.
Answer Choices
Winter temperatures vary more in urban than in rural areas.
The construction of tall buildings and hard surfaces in cities contributes to the formation of heat islands.
The heat island effect is forcing some cities in Europe and North America to manage their levels of human-generated energy more carefully.
Neither the time of the day nor the time of the year have an impact on the occurrence and intensity of heat islands.
The energy generated by such human activities as creating power and heating and cooling homes and industry contributes to warming the climate of the city.
Heat trapped by atmospheric pollution and restricted wind flow contributes to raising urban temperatures.

Task 1
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important for children to learn to draw or paint. Use details and examples to explain your opinion.

Task 2

Students Need Campus Snack Shop
  I think the university should open a snack shop on campus- a snack shop that would be operated entirely by our students. A student-run snack shop would benefit students in two ways. First, it would create a number of job opportunities for students. Second, the store would be a convenient place on campus to buy food, providing students with a fast, easy place to get snacks at any time of the day.

Sincerely,
Julia Wilson

The man expresses his opinion about the letter writer’s proposal. Briefly summarize the proposal. Then state the man’s opinion and explain the reasons he gives for holding that opinion.

Task 3
Task Partitioning
Different species of insects have different ways of organizing the essential tasks that need to be completed in order for them to survive. One way of accomplishing this process is through task partitioning. Insect groups that use this method divide, or partition, their work into several different stages that are ordered and performed in a fixed sequence by different groups of workers. An important benefit of this technique is increased efficiency, since the workers performing each task are specialized, which saves time and energy.
Explain how the example of leaf-cutter ants illustrates the concept of task partitioning.

Task 4
Using the examples from the lecture, explain two ways the railroad system changed business in the United States.

Underwater, whales produce loud noises, known as songs. Scientists use whale songs to study the movements, or migrations, of groups of whales. Recently, scientists discovered something unusual: a single, solitary whale whose song is unlike that of all known whales. The most notable difference between this unusual whale's song and those of other whales is its high pitch or frequency. This unique whale is called the 52-hertz whale because it sings at the unusual frequency of 52 hertz, a much higher pitch than normal. When the 52-hertz whale was first detected, the cause of its uniquely high-pitched song was unknown; however, scientists now have several theories to explain it.

One theory holds that the 52 hertz whale may be a hybrid: the offspring of two different whale species. Whales of different species are known to interbreed and produce hybrid offspring that combine characteristics from each of their parents’ species. As a hybrid, the whale may have a unique song, different from that of either of its parents because it resulted from a combination of the two.

A second theory is that the 52 hertz whale may have a damaged sense of hearing. Just as people learn to speak by copying the sounds they hear, whales may learn to sing by listening to the sounds of other whales’ songs. When people are born deaf, their speech may sound different from that of people born hearing. Similarly, the 52-hertz whale’s songs may sound different simply because it cannot hear the songs of other whales.

A third theory holds that the 52 hertz whale may be the only known member of a rare species. Perhaps there were once many more whales of this species, but most are now gone. It seems to be entirely unique only because most of its species has died out.

Some people like to keep a record of their own experiences by updating pictures and other information to social networking sites. Other people prefer not to create such records.
Which approach do you prefer, and why?

Conversation 1

1.	Why does the student go to see the professor?
A.	To request an extension of the due date of his term paper
B.	To ask about a theory he did not understand in class
C.	To discuss an idea for his term paper project
D.	To get advice on how to prioritize his work

2.	Why does the student mention a particular stage in early childhood development?
A.	To show that his niece learns faster than other children in that stage
B.	To show that his niece displays behavior appropriate for that stage
C.	To point out that he does not agree with Piaget's theory about that stage
D.	To point out that he does not fully understand how that stage can be observed

3.	Why does the professor discuss Piaget's research method?
A.	To suggest that the student use the same method
B.	To provide a criticism of Piaget's theory
C.	To supplement information provided in class
D.	To clarify the student's assumption about what Piaget did

4.	Why does the professor reject the students proposal to write about his niece？
Click on 2 answers.
A.	The proposal does not fulfill the requirements of the assignment
B.	The proposal does not take Piaget's theory into consideration.
C.	The student's niece is too young to display the behaviors identified by Piaget
D.	The student does not have sufficient training to conduct a worthwhile experiment

5.	Why does the professor say this
A.	She does not have time to answer the student’s questions.
B.	She does not want to hurt the student’s feelings.
C.	She is pleased that the student thought of an original research project.
D.	She is impressed with the student's understanding of the class material.

Lecture 1

1.	What is the lecture mainly about？
Click on 2 answers
A.	Story elements that make comedies funny
B.	A type of play that was popular in the past
C.	Opposing theories about human nature
D.	Theories about roles that people play in society

2.	Why does the professor mention social contract theory?
A.	To provide the historical setting for the development of sentimental theory
B.	To give an example of a theory proposed by sentimental philosophers
C.	To explain the basic concept underlying all sentimental comedies
D.	To offer one explanation for the influence sentimental comedies had on society

3.	According to the professor，what two questions did sentimental theorists need to answer about their theory？
Click on 2 answers
A.	Why do people do bad things？
B.	How can people resist bad influences？
C.	How is it possible for people to feel good when they do bad things？
D.	Can people who do bad things become good again？

4.	According to the professor, what is a typical sentimental comedy usually about?
A.	A good person who tries to help others
B.	A good person in a desperate situation
C.	A person who encourages others to behave badly
D.	A bad person who is punished in the end

5.	What does the professor imply is the fundamental objective of sentimental comedies?
A.	To make people aware of social problems
B.	To remind people that money does not always bring happiness
C.	To help people forget about their problems
D.	To encourage people to be true to their inner nature

6.	What does the professor imply when he says this?
A.	Sentimental comedies preceded the development of sentimental theory.
B.	Sentimental comedies were surprisingly funny.
C.	It is difficult to understand why sentimental comedies were once so popular.
D.	It is not known exactly where the first sentimental comedies were presented.

Lecture 2

1.	What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	The formation and physical characteristics of craters
B.	Methods for determining the age of impact craters
C.	Differences between craters on planets and moons in the inner solar system
D.	Problems with using craters to date surfaces of planets and moons

2.	Why does the professor mention rocks from Earth's moon?
A.	To compare the surface of Earth's moon to the surface of a moon of Jupiter
B.	To stress the need for further exploration of space
C.	To explain a way of calculating the absolute age of surfaces of planets or moons
D.	To show how to identify a secondary impact on the surface of Earth's moon

3.	According to the professor, what are secondary impacts?
A.	Impacts of fragments thrown outward by a previous impact
B.	Impacts of objects from outside the asteroid belt
C.	Impacts of smaller asteroids in the asteroid belt
D.	Impacts in areas of a moon or planet other than those primarily studied

4.	According to the professor，what do scientists consider when trying to determine whether an impact was primary or secondary？
Click on 2 answers.
A.	The size of the crater
B.	The shape of the crater
C.	The crater's location in relation to other craters
D.	The age of the crater

5.	Based on observations of the crater Zunil，what does the professor imply are more common than previously believed？
Click on 2 answers
A.	Small objects moving rapidly through space
B.	Craters caused by secondary impacts on Earth's moon
C.	Lava flows on the surfaces of planets and moons
D.	Secondary impacts resulting from a single primary impact

6.	What does the professor imply about information obtained from space probes?
A.	The information was probably distorted during transmission to Earth.
B.	The information helped determine the age of most planetary surface features.
C.	Some of the information is at present difficult to interpret correctly.
D.	The information applies only to the moons of Jupiter.

Conversation 2

1.	Why does the man go to talk to the librarian?
A.	To get directions to another library branch
B.	To find out if his request for a journal has been processed
C.	To get help locating a source for his research paper
D.	To obtain a list of the linguistics journals the library caries

2.	What does the man learn about the library's computer catalog?
A.	It shows listings from several libraries.
B.	Its information is updated every other day
C.	It requires that the user enter a special code.
D.	It lists only a few of the journals carried by the university library system.

3.	What does the librarian offer to do to help the man?
A.	Print out a list of other linguistics journals
B.	Request the journal from another library
C.	Find out which library caries linguistics journals
D.	Find out the hours of the language department library

4.	Why does the man need to talk to his sister?
A.	To ask her if he can borrow her car
B.	To ask her for a ride to Pearson Hall
C.	To ask her to bring his student ID card from home
D.	To ask her to check out a journal from the language department library

5.	What does the librarian imply when she says this
A.	She doubts that the man can finish his paper on time
B.	She thinks it may be difficult for the man to find the listening lab.
C.	The language department library will be closing soon.
D.	The man can get the linguistics journal later today.

Lecture 3

1.	What aspect of the American West is the lecture mainly about?
A.	How it was affected by government policies in the 1900s
B.	How corporations influenced its history
C.	Different interpretations of its history
D.	Economic changes that took place there before 1890

2.	What point did Turner emphasize in his lecture about the American frontier?
A.	Opportunities on the frontier were increasing
B.	The frontier no longer existed.
C.	Earlier historians had drawn incorrect conclusions about the frontier.
D.	Settlement of the frontier should be encouraged.

3.	What point does the professor emphasize when she discusses the ideas of Turner and the New Western historians?
A.	They came to different conclusions using the same evidence.
B.	They failed to address crucial historical questions.
C.	They presented similar stories of settlers from different places.
D.	They did not adequately account for economic factors

4.	With which statement about Turner would the New Western historians most likely agree?
A.	Turner failed to recognize that social and economic conditions shape personal aptitudes.
B.	Turner did not spend enough time traveling on the frontier.
C.	Turner overestimated the amount of land owned by large corporations.
D.	Turner incorrectly assumed that people had control over most aspects of their lives
5.	Indicate for each statement whether it reflects Turner's view of the American West or the view of the New Western historians.
Click in the correct boxes.
Turner's View
New Western Historians' View
The federal government shaped the economic life of the frontier
The availability of cheap land promoted certain ideals
Americans would become less individualistic after the Western frontier disappeared
6.	Why does the professor say this
A.	To emphasize that the American frontier attracted many immigrants from Europe
B.	To explain a flaw in Turner's view of the American frontier
C.	To indicate that Turner later changed his views on some issues
D.	To contrast the settlement of the West to that of other parts of the United States


Pests and Pesticides

Around 1870, a little fruit-eating insect arrived in San Jose, California, on some nursery stock shipped from Asia. The pest, which became known as the San Jose scale, quickly spread through the United States and Canada, killing orchard trees as it went. Farmers found that the best way to control the scale was to spray their orchards with a mixture of sulfur and lime. Within a few weeks of spraying a tree, the insect vanished completely.

Around the turn of the century, however, farmers began to notice that the sulfur-lime mixture was not working all that well. A handful of scales would survive a spraying and eventually rebound to their former numbers. In Clarkston Valley Washington State, orchard growers became convinced that manufacturers were adulterating their pesticide. They built their own factory to guarantee a pure poison, which they drenched over their trees, yet the scale kept spreading uncontrollably. An entomologist named A. L. Melander inspected the trees and found scales living happily under a thick crust of dried spray.

Melander began to suspect that adulteration was not to blame. In 1912, he compared how effective the sprays were in different parts of Washington. In Yakima and Sunnyside, he found that sulfur-lime could wipe out every last scale on a tree, while in Clarkston between 4 and 13 percent survived. On the other hand, the Clarkston scales were annihilated by a different pesticide made from fuel oil, just as the insects in other parts of Washington were. In other words, the scales of Clarkston had a peculiar resistance to sulfur-lime.

Melander wondered why. He knew that if individuals eat small amounts of certain poisons, such as arsenic, they can build up an immunity. But San Jose scales bred so quickly that no single scale experienced more than a single spray of sulfur-lime, giving them no chance to develop immunity.

A radical idea occurred to Melander. Perhaps mutations made a few scales resistant to sulfur-lime. When farmers sprayed their trees, these resistant scales survived, as did a few nonresistant ones that hadn't received a fatal dose. The surviving scales would then breed, and the resistant genes would become more common in the following generations. Depending on the proportions of the survivors, the trees might become covered by resistant or nonresistant scales. In the Clarkston Valley region, farmers had been using sulfur-lime longer than anywhere else in the Northwest and were desperately soaking their trees with the stuff. In the process, they were driving the evolution of more resistant scales.

Melander offered his ideas in 1914 , but no one paid much attention to him; they were too busy discovering even more powerful pesticides. In 1939 the Swiss chemist Paul Muller found that a compound of chlorine and hydrocarbons called DDT could kill insects more effectively than any previous pesticide had. DDT was cheap and easy to make, it could kill many species of insects, and it was stable enough to be stored for years. It could be used in small doses, and it didn't seem to pose any health risks to humans. Between 1941 and 1976, 4.5 million tons of DDT were produced. DDT was so powerful and cheap that farmers gave up old-fashioned ways of controlling pests, such as draining standing water or breeding resistant strains of crops

DDT and similar pesticides created the delusion that pests could be not merely controlled but eradicated, so farmers began spraying pesticides on their crops as matter of course, rather than to control outbreaks. Meanwhile, public health workers saw in DDT the hope of controlling mosquitoes, which spread diseases such as malaria.

DDT certainly saved a great many lives and crops, but even in its early days, some scientists saw signs of its doom. In 1946 Swedish scientists discovered houseflies that could no longer be killed with DDT. Houseflies in other countries became resistant as well in later years, and soon other species could withstand it. Melander's warning was becoming a reality. By 1992 more than 500 species were resistant to DDT, and the number is still climbing. As DDT began to fail, farmers at first just applied more of it; when more no longer worked, they switched to newer pesticides.
1. The wordList “vanished” in the passage is closest in meaning to
recovered
disappeared
adapted
retreated
2. According to paragraph 2, how did farmers in Clarkston Valley explain the lack of success they were having with the use of the sulfur-lime mixture ?

They suspected that surviving insects might have been a different variety of scale
They believed that the mixture was not being applied to the trees properly
They thought the mixture was being weakened by the manufacturers
They assumed that the new scales were coming from nearby orchards

3. In paragraph 3, why does the author compare the effects of sulfur-lime pesticide in Yakima and Sunnyside with its effect in Clarkston?
To provide evidence that a new pesticide made from fuel oil was more effective than the sulfur-lime mixture
To explain why Melander thought that scales had become resistant to the pesticide
To indicate how Melander discovered that scale insects were killing trees throughout Washington
To illustrate the success of farmers who chose to manufacture their own pesticide
4. According to paragraph 4, why did Melander reject the possibility that scales could have developed immunity ?
Immunity could not effectively be passed on to the enormous number of offspring produced by scales.
The development of immunity to a poison usually occurs from eating small doses of the poison, but scales did not eat the sulfur-lime mixture.
The lifecycle of a scale is so short that no scale was exposed to more than one spraying of pesticide.
Only certain poisons lead to the development of an immunity, and the poisons used in the pesticides were not believed to be among these.

According to paragraph 5, how did Melander account for the increasing number of scales that were resistant ?
A few scales developed mutated genes that gave them pesticide resistance, and these genes were then spread among later generations.
Farmers were using so much pesticide that only resistant scales could survive and reproduce.
Some scales that survived the pesticide did not have a genetic mutation for resistance and their numbers made it appear that scales were becoming increasingly resistant.
Scales receiving several low doses of pesticide over the course of their lives gradually built up an immunity.
6. What can be inferred from paragraph 5 about resistance to sulfur-lime pesticide in regions of the Northwest other than Clarkston?
The proportion of resistant scales was lower in the other regions because they used several pesticides not used in Clarkston.
The proportion of resistant scales was lower in the other regions because they had not used sulfur-lime pesticide as long as Clarkston had.
The scales in the other regions could not develop resistance because they were genetically different from the scales in Clarkston.
The scales in the other regions could not develop resistance because they were never exposed to the sulfur-lime pesticide.
7. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 6 as true of DDT EXCEPT
It could be manufactured at a low cost.
It was effective against many different species.
It did not need to be used in large doses in order to be effective.
It had been used successfully in Europe before 1939.
8. According to the passage, in what way did sulfur-lime and DDT have similar histories of use?
With both pesticides users at first had the false belief that the pesticide would completely eliminate pests.
In both cases it was found that widespread use of the pesticide caused health problems in humans.
Both pesticides were eventually used only in small quantities to avoid the development of resistance to the pesticide.
Users of both pesticides had the mistaken belief that the pesticide could be used to control diseases affecting humans, such as malaria.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

These advantages made it appear to be the perfect solution, and farmers began to use it in large quantities.

Where would the sentence best fit ? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.
10. Pose summary

A.L.Melander determined that a pest population develops resistance to a pesticide to which it is repeatedly exposed.

Answer Choices
In the early 1900s, farmers began to notice that a sulfur and lime mixture that had previously been effective against the San Jose scale had stopped working.

With the failure of the sulfur-lime mixture against the San Jose scale, farmers became convinced that pesticides alone could not eliminate pests.

Melander hypothesized that genetic mutations in the scales that survived spraying with sulfur-lime were making scale population increasingly resistant to the pesticide.

As the use of pesticides become more widespread in the late 1800s, farmers set up factories to produce their own pesticides.

Continued use of DDT showed that individual pests responded differently to it.


When pests became resistant to even more effective pesticides such as DDT, Melander’s ideas were confirmed.

The Debate over Spontaneous Generation
Until the second half of the nineteenth century, many scientists and philosophers believed that some forms of life could arise spontaneously from nonliving matter, they called this hypothetical process spontaneous generation. Not much more than 10 0 years ago, people commonly believed that toads, snakes, and mice could be born of moist soil, that flies could emerge from manure; and that maggots, the larvae of flies, could arise from decaying corpses.
A strong opponent of spontaneous generation, the Italian physician Francesco Redi, set out in 1668 to demonstrate that maggots did not arise spontaneously from decaying meat. Redi filled three jars with decaying meat and sealed them tightly. Then he arranged three other jars similarly but left them open. Maggots appeared in the open vessels after flies entered the jar s and laid their eggs, but the sealed containers showed no signs of maggots. Still, Redi’s antagonists were not convinced, they claimed that fresh air was needed for spontaneous generation. So Redi set up a second experiment, in which three jars were covered with a fine net instead of being sealed. No larvae appeared in the net-covered jars, even though air was present. Maggots appeared only when flies were allowed to leave their eggs on the meat.
Redi’s results were a serious blow to the long-held belief that large forms of life could arise from nonlife. However, many scientists still believed that tiny microorganisms were simple enough to be generated from nonliving materials.
The case for spontaneous generation of microorganisms seemed to be strengthened in 1745, when John Needham, an Englishman, found that even after he heated nutrient fluids (chicken broth and corn broth) before pouring them into covered flasks, the cooled solutions were soon teeming with microorganisms. Needham claimed that microbes developed spontaneously from the fluids. Twenty years later, Lazzaro Spallanzani, an Italian scientist, suggested that microorganisms from the air probably had entered Needham’s solutions after they were boiled. Spallanzani showed that nutrient fluids heated after being sealed in a flask did not develop microbial growth. Needham responded by claiming the “vital force” necessary for spontaneous generation had been destroyed by the heat and was kept out of the flasks by the seals.
This intangible “vital force” was given all the more credence shortly after Spallanzani experiment, when Laurent Lavoisier showed the importance of oxygen to life Spallanzani's observations were criticized on the grounds that there was not enough oxygen in the sealed flasks to support microbial life.
The issue was still unresolved in 1858, when the German scientist Rudolf Virchow challenged spontaneous generation with the concept of biogenesis, the claim that living cells can arise only from preexisting living cells. Arguments about spontaneous generation continued until 1861, when the work of the French scientist Louis Pasteur ended the debate.
With a series of ingenious and persuasive experiments, Pasteur demonstrated that microorganisms are present in the air and can contaminate sterile solutions, but air itself does not create microbes. He filled several short-necked flasks with beef broth and then boiled their contents. Some were then left open and allowed to cool. In a few days, these flasks were found to be contaminated with microbes. The other flasks, sealed after boiling, were free of microorganisms. From these results, Pasteur reasoned that microbes in the air were the agents responsible for contaminating nonliving matter such as the broths in Needham’s flasks.
Pasteur next placed broth in open-ended long-necked flasks and bent the necks into S-shaped curves. The contents of these flasks were then boiled and cooled. The broth in the flasks did not decay and showed no signs of life, even after months. Pasteur’s unique design allowed air to pass into the flask, but the curved neck trapped any airborne microorganisms that might have contaminated the broth.
Pasteur showed that microorganisms can be present in nonliving matter-- on solids, in liquids, and in the air. His work provided evidence that microorganisms cannot originate from mysterious forces present in nonliving materials. Rather, any appearance of “spontaneous” life in nonliving solutions can be attributed to microorganisms that were already present in the air or in the fluids themselves.

1. The wordList "hypothetical" in the passage is closest in meaning to
biological
observable
supposed
repeated
2. According to paragraph 2, the purpose of Redi's second experiment was to show that spontaneous generation did not occur when
air was allowed to enter the net-covered jars
flies were allowed to enter the open jars
larvae were removed from net-covered jars
meat decay was prevented
3. According to paragraph 3, how did Redi's experiments change the debate over spontaneous generation?
His experiments strengthened the belief that large organisms could be generated from small organisms.
His experiments suggested that simple organisms could be generated from nonliving things.
His experiments provided evidence that at least some kinds of organisms did not arise spontaneously.
His experiments showed that small organisms survived the absence of air more easily than large ones did.
4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
John Needham seemed to confirm the idea of spontaneous generation when he found that heated broth remained uncontaminated but that numerous microorganisms appeared in cool broth.
John Needham gave support to the idea of spontaneous generation by showing that microorganisms appeared in broth that was heated before being placed in sealed containers.
John Needham seemed to show that microorganisms were generated spontaneously in broth that had been sealed before being heated and then cooled.
John Needham seemed to show that the spontaneous generation of microorganisms was more likely to occur in greater quantity in heated rather than cooled broth.

5. In paragraph 4, why does the author discuss Spallanzani's experiment of heating nutrient fluids after they were sealed in flasks?
To explain why Spallanzani concluded that Needham's solutions had probably been contaminated with microbes from the air
To illustrate the increasing accuracy of theories about life forms based on experiments conducted during the eighteenth century
To explain why nutrient solutions that were heated and then cooled in covered flasks contained microorganisms
To illustrate how the boiling of nutrient solutions had affected the results of Needham's experiments
6. Paragraphs 6-8 suggest which of the following about the relationship between Pasteur's experiments and Virchow's concept of biogenesis?
In his description of the concept of biogenesis, Virchow proposed experiments similar to those later conducted by Pasteur.
Pasteur's experiments supported Virchow's idea that living organisms could arise only from other living organisms.
Pasteur's experiments renewed the arguments about spontaneous generation, which were finally settled by Virchow's theory.
Pasteur's experiments ended the debate about Virchow's concept of biogenesis by showing that the theory did not explain how microorganisms were generated.
7. According to paragraph 7, why did Pasteur think that the microorganisms that had contaminated the liquids in his experiment had come from the air?
Previous experiments had shown that microbes in the air could contaminate sterile liquids.
The microorganisms appeared only in the broth in flasks that had been left open to the air.
The microorganisms appeared in the broth in sealed flasks only after a few days had passed.
The microorganisms appeared in the broth in flasks that had been unsealed, heated, and then resealed.
8. According to paragraphs 7 and 8, Pasteur's experiment involving flasks with S-shaped necks proved that
air does not cause microorganisms to arise spontaneously from nonliving matter
microorganisms require access to nutrient fluids in order to arise spontaneously
the temperature of liquids has no effect on the presence or absence of microorganisms
microorganisms in the air cannot travel long distances

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
This allowed air into the jars, but not flies.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.
10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by s electing the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong i n the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your answer choices to the spaces where they belong. To remove an answer choice, click on it. To review the passage, click VIEW TEXT.
Until the nineteenth century, many people believed in spontaneous generation, the idea that living things arise from nonliving things.
Answer Choices
A. Experiments in the seventeenth century showed that the idea of spontaneous generation did not apply to large organisms, but many still believed that microorganisms could arise spontaneously.
B. Because boiling broth in sealed flasks prevented the growth of microorganisms, some scientists believed that the spontaneous generation of microorganisms required a "vital force" from the air.
C. The new concept of biogenesis, introduced in the nineteenth century, proposed that microbes required both oxygen and nutrients in order to survive.
D. Opponents of Francesco Redi claimed that his findings were not defensible because some of the jars had been improperly sealed, allowing flies to enter.
E. Spallanzani's experiments were shown to be flawed, because he had used liquids that were contaminated by microbes.
F. Pasteur built on earlier experiments to show conclusively that microorganisms do not arise spontaneously but must come from other living things.


The Problem of Narrative Clarity in Silent Films
Beginning in 1904, American commercial filmmaking became increasingly oriented toward storytelling. Moreover, with the new emphasis on one-reel films, narratives became longer and necessitated a series of camera shots. Filmmakers faced the challenge of making story films that would be comprehensible to audiences. How could techniques of editing, camerawork, acting, and lighting be combined so as to clarify what was happening in a film? How could the spectator grasp where and when the action was occurring?

Over the span of several years, filmmakers solved such problems. Sometimes they influenced each other, while at other times two filmmakers might happen on the same technique independently. Some devices were tried and abandoned. By 1917, filmmakers had worked out a system of formal principles that were standard in American filmmaking. That system has come to be called the classical Hollywood cinema. Despite that name, many of the basic principles of the system were being worked out before filmmaking was centered in Hollywood, and, indeed, many of those principles were first tried in other countries. In the years before the First World War, film style was still largely international, since films circulated widely outside their country of origin.

The basic problem that confronted filmmakers early in the silent-movie era was that audiences could not understand the causal, spatial, and temporal relations in many films. If the editing abruptly changed locales, the spectator might not grasp where the new action was occurring. An actor's elaborate pantomime might fail to convey the meaning of a crucial action. A review of a 1906 film lays out the problem: “Regardless of the fact that there are a number of good motion pictures brought out, it is true that there are some which, although photographically good, are poor because the manufacturer, being familiar with the picture and the plot, does not take into consideration that the film was not made for him but for the audience. A movie recently seen was very good photographically, but the story could not be understood by the audience.” In a few theaters, a lecturer might explain the plot as the film unrolled, but producers could not rely on such aids.

Filmmakers came to assume that a film should guide the spectator’s attention, making every aspect of the story on the screen as clear as possible. In particular, films increasingly set up a chain of narrative causes and effects. One event would plainly lead to an effect, which would in turn cause another effect, and so on. Moreover, an event was typically caused by a character’s beliefs or desires. Character psychology had not been particularly important in early films. Comical chases or brief melodramas depended more on physical action or familiar situations than on character traits Increasingly after 1907, however, character psychology motivated actions. By following a series of characters goals and resulting conflicts, the spectator could comprehend the action.

Every aspect of the silent-film style came to be used to enhance narrative clarity. Staging or framing action in depth could show the spatial relationships among elements. Intertitles could add narrative information beyond what the images conveyed. Closer views of the actors could suggest their emotions more precisely. Color, set design, and lighting could imply time of day, the milieu of the action, and so on.

Some of the most important innovations of this period involved the ways in which camera shots were put together, or edited, to create a story. In one sense, editing was a boon to the filmmaker, permitting instant movement from one space to another or cuts to closer views to reveal details. But if the spectator could not keep track of the temporal or spatial relations between one shot and the next, editing might also lead to confusion. In some cases, intertitles could help. Editing also came to emphasize continuity among shots. Certain visual cues indicated that time was flowing uninterruptedly across cuts. Between scenes, other cues might suggest how much time had been skipped over. When a cut moved from one space to another, the director found ways to orient the viewer.

1. Paragraph 1 implies that compared with later films, American films before 1904 were ○ less likely to be made for commercial reasons
less likely to be narrative films
more likely to combine editing, camerawork, acting and lighting
more likely to be filmed using multiple camera shots

2. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is true about the filmmaking style known as classical Hollywood cinema?
It consisted of devices that were tried elsewhere but abandoned.
Its principles were largely developed after 1917.
A great many international filmmakers adopted it after the First World War.
A large number of its principles were developed outside the United States.

3. According to paragraph 3, which of the following did NOT generally cause a lack of understanding in very early silent- movie audiences?
Lack of familiarity with the plot
Shifts in time from scene to scene
Shifts in place from scene to scene
Poor photography by the filmmakers

4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
A number of well-photographed films need improvements to their plots so that audiences will not consider them to be inferior.
Some photographically good films are nonetheless poor films overall because the filmmaker, who knows what the film is about, forgets that the audience does not.
Manufacturers of films need to help familiarize audiences with the good motion pictures that are brought out because the films were not made with the audience in mind.
Regardless of the number of good motion pictures that are brought out, there will still be many that audiences will consider to be poor.

5. According to paragraph 4, all of the following were characteristic of early films EXCEPT
character development
slapstick chases
physical action
familiar situations

6. The wordList "imply" in the passage is closest in meaning to
indicate
determine
illustrate
define

7. According to paragraph 6, early filmmakers provided visual cues to audiences in order to
explain the intertitles
eliminate the need for editing
provide essential background information
reveal character traits

8. Which of the following best describes the overall organization of the passage?
A theory is introduced, and supporting evidence for it is evaluated.
A position is introduced, and then opposing views are discussed.
Innovations are presented, and their impacts are questioned.
Problems are presented, and means used to solve them are discussed.

Filmmakers came to assume that a film should guide the spectator’s attention, making every aspect of the story on the screen as clear as possible. In particular, films increasingly set up a chain of narrative causes and effects. One event would plainly lead to an effect, which would in turn cause another effect, and so on. Moreover, an event was typically caused by a character’s beliefs or desires. Character psychology had not been particularly important in early films. Comical chases or brie f melodramas depended more on physical action or familiar situations than on character traits Increasingly after 1907, however, character psychology motivated actions. By following a series of characters goals and resulting conflicts, the spectator could comprehend the action.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
The usual forms of those films relied on other ways to maintain coherence.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by s electing the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your answer choices to the spaces where they belong. To remove an answer choice, click on it. To review the passage, click VIEW TEXT.
Changes in the nature of films made in the United States in the early twentieth century created new challenges for filmmakers.
Answer Choices
A. Early filmmakers in the United States had to develop a number of new techniques to make the action of their films comprehensible to audiences.
B. As filmmakers became more sophisticated, they made use of more slapstick comedy and physical action to help explain a film's meaning to audiences.
C. New editing techniques, emphasizing continuity among camera shots, were among the most important new development s in early filmmaking.
D. Early filmmakers, despite working independently, influenced each other in the development and adoption of new techniques.
E. Because stories were longer and more complex, filmmakers increasingly used character psychology to make a film's narrative clear to audiences.
F. Some theaters employed lecturers to stop films temporarily in order to explain to the audience the camera shots used in new editing techniques.


Task 1

Some people are able to make decisions very quickly, based on their first thoughts. Other people take a lot of time and think carefully before making a decision. Which do you think is better? Explain why by using details and examples to support your opinion.
Task 2

Extending Study Period

The university now schedules one study day at the end of every semester for students to prepare for final exams. I suggest that the university consider extending this study period to three days. Most students have exams in several classes. Having only one study day between the end of classes and the beginning of the final exam period is not enough time to prepare for all of the exams. Additionally, having a three-day study period will give students extra time to consult with their professors if they need help or advice before the exam period begins.

Sincerely,

Robert Steele

The woman expresses her opinion about the proposal in the letter. Briefly summarize the proposal. Then state her opinion about the proposal and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
Task 3

Root Communication

All plants need water in order to grow. In desert environments, however, water is especially scarce. One way that some desert plants attempt to secure an adequate water supply is by maintaining a certain distance between themselves and other plants that might try to compete for the same water. They maintain this distance through a process known as root communication. That is, the roots of one plant communicate with the roots of another plant in order to control the amount of distance separating them. In this way, the communicating plant is able to protect its precious water supply.
Using the example of the creosote plant from the lecture, explain how root communication helps desert plants to survive.
Task 4

Using the two examples from the talk, explain how a business can increase sales by creating a second interest.

Reading material

Amtrak is an intercity train service currently owned by the United States government. There are a number of critics who believe that the government should not own Amtrak and that Amtrak should be sold to a privately-owned company. These critics put forward several arguments to support their position.

First, the critics point out that the government loses money on many Amtrak routes. In its effort to serve citizens in all parts of the country, Amtrak maintains routes even in remote and less populated areas. Those routes are not used by enough passengers to cover the cost of maintaining them. The amount of money lost every year due to underuse is sizable: the government loses up to several hundred dollars per passenger on some routes, and the total losses due to underuse add up to hundreds of millions of dollars every
year. If Amtrak was privatized, these unprofitable routes could be cut.

Second, government ownership of Amtrak is unfair to privately owned transportation companies such as airlines. Government funding of Amtrak means that ticket prices on Amtrak are cheaper than they otherwise would be. However, the government does not give airline companies money so they can lower their ticket prices. This situation clearly is unfair to airlines and other private transportation companies because they must compete against trains for customers.

Third, critics maintain that if the government wants to support national transportation, it should spend its money elsewhere. Rail travel is relatively unimportant in the United States: Amtrak currently transports less than 1 percent of the people traveling between cities. A large majority of intercity travelers use other means of transport, such as private cars. The critics argue that rather than finance Amtrak, the government should direct its funding at maintaining and improving the highway system so that intercity car travel becomes faster and more efficient.
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
The best way to truly relax and reduce stress is to spend time alone.

CONVERSATION 1

1 Why does the student go to the work-study office?
To talk about what he would like to do after graduation
To receive feedback on his performance at work
To ask for advice about finding a new job
To learn what courses best match his career goals

2 What information was included in the report from the museum director?
The student spoke with friends when he should have been helping visitors
The student did not give accurate information to museum visitors
The student arrived late to work on one occasion
The student requested a job in a different part of the museum

3 what is the student’s main concern about his job?
He does not like working outdoors
He is not confident interacting with museum visitors
He does not have enough time to spend on academic studies
He is not interested in the sculptures at the museum


4 why does the woman suggest that the student call the curator’s office?
To find out if he can work there
To get more information about the sculpture garden
To apologize for causing a problem at the museum
To learn what background he will need to become a curator

5 what does the woman imply when she says this?

The student does not understand that the museum’s rules are less strict for volunteers
The student should work more closely with volunteers in the sculpture garden
The museum should hire more work-study students
The student does not appreciate his job

LECTURE 1
6 What does the professor mainly discuss in the lecture?
Click on 2 answers
Some ways birds benefit by having homing abilities
Several ways that birds improve their homing abilities
Some navigational tools that birds use in migration and homing
Several research studies that measure migration and homing abilities in birds

7 According to the professor, what are three ways in which homing behavior is different from migration behavior in birds?
Click on 3 answers
Homing is not a seasonal activity
Homing does not always involve long distances
Homing behavior is learned rather than instinctive
Homing abilities allow birds to deal with unexpected situations
Homing requires the use of different navigational tools than does migration

8 According to the professor, birds often take a different route when they leave the nest to hunt for food than they do when they return to the nest What is one reason for this behavior?
Birds use the return flight to teach their young homing skills
Birds want to complete the return trip as quickly as possible
By taking different routes, birds have access to more food sources
By taking different routes, birds avoid predators that may try to follow them

9 Why does the professor mention a study with gannets?
To identify a bird species that does not migrate long distances
To explain that some birds fly in spiral patterns until they locate food sources
To illustrate differences in behavior between coastal and mountain bird species
To demonstrate that some birds use distinctive features of the landscape as a navigation tool

10 what does the professor imply about the design of research experiment that the students might conduct on bird navigation?
Well-designed research studies help to explain human as well as bird navigational abilities
Past research studies were mistakenly designed to study only one navigational skill at a time
Students need to be careful to avoid designing experiments that are based on faulty assumptions
Students should try to designing experiments that challenge traditional theories about birds’ navigational abilities

11 why does that student say this:
To establish a connection between two scientific studies
To point out that the professor mentioned these details in a previous class
To indicate she is confident that her initial response was correct
To show that she agrees with the professor’s interpretation of a theory

CONVERSATION 2

1 Why does the man go to see the professor?
To confirm that he is registered for her class
To introduce himself to her before the beginning of classes
To discuss work he plans to do in preparation for her class
To borrow a copy of a film he missed in class

2 What did the man wrongly assume?
That he cannot take a film class during his second year of college
That he is required to take a film class
That he has registered for a filmmaking class
That a film class will fulfill his English literature requirement

3 What will students learn about in Professor Johnson’s class?
How classic stories become films
How to produce a film
Famous screenwriters
Narrative techniques used in film

4 What do the film narrative class and the English composition class have in common?
Both use the same textbook
Both require students to write a lot of papers
Both are taught by Professor Webb
Both are required for a degree in film studies

5 What does the professor suggest the man find out at the English department?
Whether the English department offers a course on narratives in  stories
Whether the film narrative course could be accepted for his English requirement
When the man needs to make a final decision about his fall classes
When the English composition class is scheduled to meet

LECTURE 2

6 What is the lecture mainly about?
Instruments that have helped improve astronomical observations
The impact of the big bang theory on astronomy
The importance of computers in astronomy
The development of the interferometer

7 According to the professor, why was the Hooker telescope important ?
It allowed astronomers to differentiate between solo- and multiple-star systems
It allowed astronomers to accurately measure the dimensions of stars
It was the first telescope to be attached to a computer
It helped astronomers develop the big bang theory

8 According to the professor, what advantage does an interferometer have over a conventional telescope ?

It is simpler to operate
It provides a more detailed image
It allows astronomers to see farther
It helps astronomers determine if stars are moving away from one another

9 Why does the professor mention the star Castor？
To point out how it differs from most other stars
To give an example of a discovery made using the
To demonstrate the interferometer’s capabilities
To remind the class of an important discovery discussed in the reading

10 What does the professor imply when he says this:
Interferometers may help scientists find answers to many astronomical questions
The students should look for the answers t these questions in their textbook
There are many areas of astronomy that the class has not yet covered
Some astronomical questions will never be answered

11 What does the professor imply when he says this:
He will discuss the topic in a later class session
He may change his mind about the impact of interferometers
He does not believe there are other planets that support life
He thinks that the technology of both telescopes and interferometers will soon be outdated

LECTURE 3

12 What is the lecture mainly about?
The influence of the Harlem Renaissance on political movements in the United States
What the Harlem Renaissance was and why it happened
Why the Harlem Renaissance came to an early end
A comparison of literary works written during the Harlem Renaissance

13 According to the professor, what literary innovations did Harlem Renaissance writers introduce in their works?
Click on 2 answers
The characters in their novels were cosmopolitan
They incorporated folk traditions into their writing
They brought elements of African American music to their poetry
They celebrated urban life instead of traditional rural life

14 Where did the cultural renaissance discussed in the lecture take place?
It was confined to Harlem in New York City
It spread among rural communities of African immigrants
It was centered around the town of Niagara Falls
It mostly occurred in cities in the north of the United States

15 What does the professor imply about the dates of the Harlem Renaissance ?
The renaissance began several years before the publication of DuBois’ first book
Historians do not agree about when the renaissance began
Many people assume the renaissance lasted longer than it actually did
The renaissance ended when the First World War ended

16 According to professor, which historical events created conditions for the development of African American literature in the 1920s ?
Click on 3 answers
The rise of the labor union movement
The mass migration of the rural population to cities
The founding of new universities in the North
A meeting led by DuBois
The return of veterans of World War I

17 what does the professor imply when she says this :
The assumption is reasonable but false
The student’s question was not very perceptive
The student should find the answer for himself
The class should pay closer attention


The Development of Instrumental Music
Until the sixteenth century, almost all music was written for the voice rather than for musical instruments. Even during the Renaissance (from the fourteenth to the sixteenth century), instrumental music was, for the most part, the result of substituting an instrument for a voice in music written for singing or dancing. The seventeenth century marked the rise of music that lacked extramusical meaning. Like a mathematical equation or geometric formula, the instrumental music of the early modern era carried no explicit narrative content-it was neither a vehicle of religious expression nor a means of supporting a secular (nonreligious) vocalized text. Such music was written without consideration for the associational content traditionally provided by a set of sung lyrics. The idea of music as an aesthetic exercise, composed for its own sake rather than to serve a religious or communal purpose, was a notable feature of the seventeenth century and one that has distinguished modern Western European music from the musical traditions of Asia and Africa.

Not surprisingly, the rise of instrumental music was accompanied by improvements in instruments and refinements in tuning. Indeed, instrumental music came to dominate musical composition at the very moment that Western musicians were perfecting such stringed instruments as the violin, viola, and cello and such keyboard instruments as the organ and harpsichord. By the early eighteenth century, musicians were adopting the system of tuning known as equal temperament, whereby the octave was divided into twelve half steps of equal size. Johann Sebastian Bach’s Well-tempered Clavier (1722) was an attempt to popularize this system to a skeptical musical public. The new attention paid to improving instruments and systematizing tuning minored the efforts of scientists and philosophers to bring precision and uniformity to the tools and methods for scientific inquiry.

In the seventeenth century, northern Italy was the world center for the manufacture of violins. The Amati Guarneri, and Stradivari families of Cremona, Italy, established the techniques of making high-quality violins that were sought in all of the great courts of Europe. Transmitted from father to son, the construction techniques used to produce these instruments were guarded so secretly that modern violinmakers have never successfully imitated them. Elsewhere, around 1650, earlier instruments were standardized and refined. Also during this period amateur music making was widespread, and professional performance also took a great leap forward, as a new breed of virtuosi inspired the writing of treatises on performance techniques.

Three main types of composition—the sonata, the suite, and the concerto—dominated seventeenth-century instrumental music. All three reflect the baroque taste for dramatic contrasts in tempo and texture. The sonata (from the Italian wordList for “sounded,” that is, music played and not sung) is a piece written for a few instruments—often no more than one or two. It usually consisted of three movements of contrasting tempo—fast/slow/fast—each based on a song or dance form of the time. The suite, written for any combination of instruments, is a sequence or series of movements derived from various European court or folk dances—for example, the sarabande, the pavane, the minuet, and gigue, or jig. Henry Purcell (1659 1695) in England, Francois Couperin (1668-1733) in France, and Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) in Germany all contributed to the development of the suite as a musical genre. Finally the concerto (from the same root as concertato, which describes opposing or contrasting bodies of sound) is a composition consisting of two groups of instruments, one small and the other large, playing in dialogue. The typical baroque concerto, the concerto grosso (“large concerto”) featured several movements whose number and kind varied considerably.

The leading Italian instrumental composer of the baroque era was Antonio Vivaldi (1678 1741). Vivaldi wrote some 450 concertos. He systematized the concerto grosso into a three-movement form (fast/slow/fast) and increased the distinctions between solo and ensemble groups in each movement. Of the many exciting compositions Vivaldi wrote for solo violin and ensemble, the most glorious is The Four Seasons, a group of four violin concertos, each of which musically describes a single season.

1. According to paragraph 1, what is a notable feature of seventeenth century music?
Secular ideas replaced religion as the central resource for new musical ideas.
Instrumental music was composed as an independent means of artistic expression.
Music combined the musical traditions of Asia, Africa and Europe.
Instrumental music was written to serve the needs of the community.

2. The wordList "skeptical” in the passage is closest in meaning to
doubting
ignorant
growing
serious

3. Why does the author mention the activities of "scientists and philosophers" in the passage?
To indicate that the new emphasis on accuracy and systematization that was taking place in was also taking place in other fields
To suggest that the study of music was no longer limited to musicians only
To argue that some of the changes in instrumental music originated outside of musical circles
To provide an example of professions that supported the new approaches in seventeenth-century instrumental music

4. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true about the production of violins in the seventeenth century?
Violins were made at large manufacturing centers in northern Italy
Standards of violin design were created and enforced by the great courts of Europe
Several families shared design techniques to improve instrument quality
Violins were carefully crafted according to specific family traditions

5. The wordList “refined” in the passage is closest in meaning to
improved
tested
regulated
restored

6. According to paragraph 3, all of the following characterized the developments of seventeenth-century European instrumental music EXCEPT
Instruments of superior quality were produced
Manuals on performance techniques were written
Individuals accomplished in playing certain instruments gained recognition
Amateur musical performances replaced professional performances

7. According to paragraph 4, what did sonatas and suites have in common?
They developed as musical genres before the concerto did
Their movements did not allow for many combinations of instruments
Their movements were based on dances
They were more popular in Italy than in any other European country

8. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is a characteristic of a concerto?
It was generally performed by only one or two instruments.
It required more violins than any other type of composition.
It was invented by three famous composers Purcell, Couperin, and Bach.
It consisted of movements that vaned in number and kind.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage

Some ancient instruments underwent development; for instance, the shawm became the oboe.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

In the seventeenth century, instrumental music in western Europe developed in ways that distinguished it from earlier European music and the musical traditions of Asia and Africa.
Before the seventeenth century, instrumental music was based on mathematical and scientific principles.
The development of instrumental music in the seventeenth century went along with the improvements in design, tuning, and playing of musical instruments.
The Baroque period was dominated by composers from a few aristocratic families from northern Italy.
The distinctive feature of seventeenth-century instrumental music was its independence of any text, narrative, or extramusical meaning.
The instrumental music in sonatas, suites, and concertos was characterized by dramatic contrasts of tempo, texture and instrumental group.
After the seventeenth century, most baroque instrumental composers wrote concertos more than any other type of composition.

Pinyon Pines and Pinyon Jays
Organisms of different species frequently evolve adaptations that make them utterly and specifically dependent on each other for resources. For example, many trees must have mycorrhizal fungi living in their root systems, fungi that are indispensable to the tree because they facilitate mineral uptake from the soil. In turn, the fungi rely on the trees to photosynthesize; they use some of the trees chemical food as their only energy source. Such intimate relationships are examples of coevolution through which two species become so interdependent that they can thrive only in each other’s presence.

At first glance, the relationship between pinyon pine trees and the pinyon jay does not appear to be one of coevolution. Pinyon pines produce cones and seeds that attract seed predators, especially the pinyon jay. A seed, of course, contains an embryonic plant for the next generation. Why sacrifice it to an animal? Some plants have poisonous seeds, an obvious adaptation to reduce loss to animals. Pinyons, however, have an array of characteristics that combine to encourage jays to visit the pines and help themselves to the seeds. Cones are positioned upward and outward on the tree, so the seeds inside are in plain sight of the jays, essentially inviting them to partake. Pinyon seeds are unusually large, and each seed is high in energy. The seed coat is thin, meaning that birds such as pinyon jays can not only ingest the seeds but also digest them. In many plants, an indigestible seed coat permits the seed to pass unharmed through the bird's alimentary system. Pinyon, seed coats differ in color between edible and nonviable seeds, signaling the jays as to which they should select.

Attracting seed predators would not seem to be a successful survival strategy for pinyon pines. However pinyon jays are behaviorally adapted to bury any seeds in excess of their immediate survival needs. This is a useful behavior for the jays, providing they can retrieve some of the buried seeds during winter, and good for the trees, as the unretrieved seeds are ready to germinate. Still, for the jays to bury any seeds, there must be an abundance of seeds far beyond the jays’ immediate needs. One tree could never produce so many seeds, but if all the pinyons in a region produced heavy seed crops at once, they would indeed "flood the market” with vastly more pinyon seeds than the local population of jays could consume. In fact, that is exactly what the pinyon pines do.

It requires a great deal of energy to make so many seeds, so much energy that it is unlikely that a pinyon population could produce such a bumper seed crop every year. More important, however, it would be to the severe disadvantage of the trees to produce large seed crops annually, even if they could. Doing so would make the resource not only abundant but also predictable. Seed predators could, over the years, steadily build their populations, eventually Increasing so much that they could, indeed, consume virtually all of the seeds. It is much more adaptive for the plants to produce seed cornucopias intermittently. Doing so has several major advantages. First, energy can be stored for some years and then devoted to cone and seed production, ensuring adequate energy to produce a large seed crop. Second, seed-predator populations will decline in years of low seed production, either through starvation, reduced reproduction, or emigration. Pinyons in most areas have a roughly six-year interval between heavy seed crops.

Pinyon jays have so completely adapted to the cycle of the pinyons that their reproduction is tied to it. Most species of birds mature sexually in response to changes in day length. In pinyon jays, however, day length is only one stimulus for reproduction. The other cue is availability of pinyon seeds. When seeds are abundant, jays can breed very early in spring, continue breeding through summer and reenter breeding condition as early as the winter solstice. So the jay population temporarily enlarges in response to one of the intermittent large crops of pinyon seeds. But the increase in the population of jays is less than the increase in the size of the seed crop. Thus many of the seeds of a bumper crop are buried and subsequently germinate, many more than would germinate without planting by the jays.

1. The wordList "facilitate" in the passage is closest in meaning to
useful
necessary
available
adapted

2. According to paragraph 1, mycorrhizal fungi need to live in root systems of trees in order to
absorb minerals
gain energy
help the trees photosynthesize
evolve

3. The wordList "partake" in the passage is closest in meaning to
discover
see
remove
consume

4. According to paragraph 2, all the following are characteristics of pinyon pine seeds that make them attractive to seed predators EXCEPT
The seeds are highly visible.
The seeds contain a large amount of energy.
The seeds pass unharmed through the predator’s alimentary system.
The seed coat is thin.

5. What purpose does paragraph 2 serve in the passage as a whole?
It presents an exception to the ideas about coevolution provided in paragraph 1
It presents a puzzle about pinyon pines that later paragraphs will resolve
It introduces for further discussion the fact that pinyon pines do not produce poisonous seeds
It formulates a hypothesis that the rest of the passage wil support about why pinyon pines attract seed predators

6. It can be inferred from paragraph 4 that the reason the pinyon jay population in an area declines for several years in succession is that
after several years during which pinyon trees produce no seeds, there are not enough young pinyon trees producing seeds to feed the jays
for several years after a heavy seed crop, pinyon pines stop producing enough seeds to support a large population of jays
for several years in succession, pinyon jays spend most of their energy in collecting and burying seeds rather than in reproducing
over a period of several years, the pinyon jays in an area are displaced by other seed-predator species

7. According to paragraph 4, which of the following is a reason why pinyon pines do not produce a bumper seed crop every year?
Pinyon jays would stop burying pinyon seeds if a bumper crop of the seeds was produced every year
Pinyon pines are genetically programmed to produce annual seed crops of varying sizes
With any fixed level of seed production, populations of seed predators would eventually increase to consume the available crop of seeds
The environment cannot support as many pinyon pines as a yearly bumper seed crop would produce

8. What purpose does the discussion of paragraph 5 serve in the passage as a whole?
It shows that the population size of pinyon jays depends on pinyon pines but that the population size of pinyon pines does not depend on pinyon jays
It provides evidence that pinyon trees benefit more from pinyon jays than the jays benefit from the pines
It establishes that, fully understood, the relationship between pinyon pines and pinyon jays is one of coevolution
It explains why in years of bumper seed crops, pinyon jays are unable to increase their population to match the increase in the number of available pinyon seeds

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage

As a result, less energy will be needed to produce a crop of seeds large enough to flood the reduced market for them.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

Although many trees have evolved ways to protect their seeds from predators, pinyon pines attract the seed predators with which they have coevolved.
By using color coding, prominent display, and high nutritional value, pinyon pines make their seeds worth eating and storing by pinyon jays.
The reproductive cycle of pinyon jays is controlled in part by the variable availability of pinyon seeds.
The reproductive cycle of pinyon jays is controlled in part by the changing period of daylight.
Pinyon pines ensure a good germination rate for their seeds by producing every few years seeds in such abundance that pinyon jays bury many of them.
Pinyon pines adjust their seed production to the size of the local pinyon jay population so as to assure that each year some pinyon seeds will be buried by jays.
By a process of mutual adaptation, predators and the plants or animals they prey on always come to form a balanced and mutually advantageous relationship.

The Rise of Classic Maya Civilization
Prior to the beginning of the Late Preclassic period in 300 B.C. Maya ceremonial centers of relatively substantial size had already appeared in Central America. The ceremonial center was a distinctive feature of Maya culture, acting as a focus for the community. Generally speaking these centers were not what we would call cities. Although they did consist of a number of large and varied buildings, they did not have a substantial resident population. Some scholars have even labeled these Maya centers “vacant towns”. Their permanent population consisted mainly of rulers, priests, and their attendants plus a limited number of artisans. The elite lived in big houses or in palaces in and around the center. The bulk of the peasant population lived in much more modest wood and thatch homes in the areas surrounding the centers. At certain times of the year, on the occasion of major religious festivals such as the one at the time of the planting of their crops, scholars hypothesize, by analogy to historical and modern practices, that the peasants would flock to the centers to observe and participate in the ceremonies. At other times of the year, some of the peasants would be called into the centers to help in the construction of new temples and palaces dedicated to the glory of the gods and to the comforts of their earthly representatives, the priestly rulers. The peasants also would provide the food to help sustain the elite in the centers.
What the peasants received from the elite was certainly not as tangible as the services they provided. In return for food and labor, the peasants were offered a psychologically and spiritually secure and ordered world, as well as access to some trade goods. Apparently, this was enough Agriculture in the tropical Maya lowlands was at best a chancy business: even slight shifts in the onset of the rainy season or the dry season could mean disaster for that year's harvest. The religion of the ancient Maya helped the peasants cope with their precarious lives. If the gods were properly propitiated, the crops would be good --- as would life in general.
One archaeologist, William Haviland, argues that it was the centralizing effects of Maya religion that led to the rise of Classic Maya civilization. He believes that the religious centers acted as magnets to peoples living in the surrounding areas. To support the growing populations around the centers, state. Haviland believes that as early as 200 B. C, the "vacant" ceremonial centers at Tikal had begun transformation toward urban centers. Moreover, by this time or even earlier, other centers with huge, labor-intensive buildings had begun to emerge. Sites such as Nakbe, El Mirador, and Lamanai may have approached urban dimensions in the last few centuries of the first millennium B C.
Other scholars attribute the growth of the ceremonial centers to trade. William Rathje argues that the basic cause for the of Maya civilization was the necessity for the Maya, who lived in resource-poor lowlands, to trade with adjacent highlanders for materials such as obsidian (a rock used to make ornaments and cutting edges), salt, and hard stone for grinding implements. Rathje maintains that lowland sites such as Tikal, which were quite distant from the highland resource areas, were made bigger and architecturally magnificent to attract highland merchants and their trade. In order to undertake all the building, the elite had to attract more artisans and bring more laborers into the community to do the work. These population increases led in turn to even more building, population growth, greater population density, greater social differentiation, and occupational specialization. Critics have argued, however, that there were local substitutes for the external “necessities” and that foreign trade was present well before the rise of complex architecture.
Yet other factors beyond ideology and trade must have been important in the emerging Classic Maya civilization among the growing number of centers may have played a key role in the growth of social, economic, and political complexity, as the organization of the centers grew to meet the pressure of other centers for new agricultural land and control of rising population.

1.	According to paragraph 1, what important feature of cities did Maya ceremonial centers lack?
Large, varied buildings
A large, permanent population
Distinctions between social classes
Religious temples

2.	The wordList “modest” in the passage is closest in meaning to
distant
unpleasant
simple
temporary
3.	Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
Scholars hypothesize that religious festivals have changed very little in history since the festivals that Mayans held at the times when they planted their crops.
Through the study of historical and modern practices, scholars concluded that Mayans held religious festivals only at certain times of the year
Based on their knowledge of historical and modern practices, scholars suppose that peasants gathered in the centers at certain times of the year for religious festivals
Historical and modern evidence suggests that peasants were allowed to visit the centers only during the crop-planting period because of the religious ceremonies held at that time

4.	According to paragraph 2, which of the following did the Maya elite provide for the peasants?
Food for nourishment
Homes to live in
Security from the threats of other civilizations
A stable system of beliefs

5.	The wordList "precarious" in the passage is closest in meaning to
insecure
difficult
restricted
unsatisfying

6.	According to paragraph 4, what is the dispute between William Rathje and his critics?
Whether a need to import obsidian, salt, and grinding stone can explain the growth of ceremonial centers.
Whether people in the lowlands communities traded with people in the adjacent highlands.
Whether obsidian was to be found in lowland areas such as Tikal that were distant from the highlands.
Whether the development of ceremonial centers was characterized by complex architecture.

7.	According to paragraph 4, all of the following are associated with the rise of Maya civilization
EXCEPT
building construction to support an increasing population
increased division into distinct social classes
an increased number of artisans and laborers in the centers
the invention of new agricultural tools

8.	Why does the author mention the arguments that "there were local substitutes for the external “necessities" and that foreign trade was present well before the rise of complex architecture"?
To explain why complex architecture at Maya centers may have developed later than most people believe it did
To suggest that foreign trade was a more significant factor than local trade in the rise of Maya civilization
To indicate why some scholars reject the idea that the architectural growth of Maya ceremonial centers was due to trade
To support the idea that minerals were not the main goods that the Mayas imported from highland areas

9.	Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
The social status of the Mayans largely determined where they lived.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10.	Directions An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.This question is worth 2 points.

During the Late Preclassic period, Maya ceremonial centers started to develop into populated cities.

Answer Choices
During the Late Preclassic period, Maya rulers and priests started to occupy areas closer to the ceremonial centers.
The important religious function of Maya ceremonial centers is one possible explanation for their transformation into large, urban areas.
Lowlanders' needs for certain trade goods may have been critical for the development of densely populated, centralized areas.
As the number of ceremonial centers increased, competition over land and people may have led to greater cultural complexity.
Sites such as Nakbe, El Mirador, and Lamanai may have approached urban dimensions at an earlier time than Tikal did.
Religion and commerce played less important roles in the rise of Classic Maya civilization than did the conflicts that developed between individual centers.

Conversation 1
1. What are the speakers mainly discussing?
A.	Students concerns about the quality of life on campus
B.	Funding for new equipment for the gymnasium
C.	The university's academic reputation
D.	A survey that the student wants to conduct

2. Why does the woman conduct the survey?
A.	The dean of admissions asked her to conduct the survey
B.	The survey fulfills a requirement for one of her classes.
C.	The survey is part of her new job duties.
D.	The Campus Life staff conducts a survey every year

3. What situation does the man think is related to the poor quality of life on campus?
A.	The rise in the use of the athletics center
B.	The decline in the quality of students' academic work
C.	The decrease in the number of applicants for admission
D.	The increase in the number of students who transfer to other schools

4. According to the survey results, what aspects of campus life are the students least satisfied with? Click on 2 answers
A.	The auditorium
B.	The lounges
C.	The cafeteria
D.	The gymnasium

5. Why does the man say this
A.	To indicate that he is not certain about the results
B.	To indicate that he thinks the results are obvious
C.	To help the student interpret the result
D.	To point out an error in the result

Lecture 1
6. What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	Differences between tundra and grassland ecosystems
B.	Reasons seabirds prosper in an island ecosystem
C.	Why introduced species have difficulty adapting to a new ecosystem
D.	How introduced species can affect ecosystems

7. What initially caused the ecosystem of some of the Aleutian Islands to change?
A.	Traders brought a new species of mammal to some of the islands
B.	Scientists introduced a new species of grass on some of the islands
C.	The temperature of the soil suddenly decreased on some of the islands
D.	The population of nest-building seabirds increased on some of the islands

8. The professor mentions hat some of the Aleutian Islands were deprived of ocean-derived nutrients What was the direct result of the deprivation?
A.	A rise in the fox population
B.	An absence of seabirds
C.	A change in the vegetation
D.	The exposure of volcanic rock

9. What does the professor imply when she points out that most seabirds have only one offspring per year?
A.	It will take many years for the Aleutian ecosystem to be restored
B.	Many species of seabirds are in danger of becoming extinct
C.	Scientists should have been able to predict the foxes impact
D.	The seabirds would have become endangered even without the foxes

10. What is the professors opinion regarding the introduction of nonnative species into an ecosystem?
A.	It is almost always disastrous for the species native to that habitat
B.	Its risks can be minimized if it is done with sufficient forethought
C.	Its consequences are impossible to predict
D.	Its scientific usefulness is questionable

11. What does the professor imply when she says this
A.	She is excited by the implications of the students idea
B.	She wants the student to explain better what he means
C.	The student's theory does not fit the facts
D.	The students explanation is probably correct

Lecture 2
12. What does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	The popularity of city scenes in nineteenth-century paintings
B.	A popular nineteenth-century art form that is little known today
C.	Techniques developed by nineteenth-century artists to make their work look realistic
D.	Reasons that art became a popular form of entertainment in the nineteenth century

13. What was one significant contribution that Robert Barker made to the development of panoramas?
A.	He was the first person to create a panorama from photographs
B.	He determined how to enlarge miniature panoramas
C.	He constructed buildings for panoramas throughout Europe
D.	He designed a building suitable for viewing panoramas.

14. According to the professor, what are some of the reasons that panoramas seemed so realistic to viewers? Click on 3 answers
A.	They were displayed without frames
B.	They were painted by skilled artists
C.	They were copied from photographs
D.	They were shown in spaces with only artificial light
E.	They were sometimes displayed together with plants

15. According to the professor why were so many spectators interested in seeing a panorama titled A View of Paris from the Roof of the Tuileries?
A.	It was a rare opportunity for London residents to see a realistic depiction of Pans
B.	It was the first time that an artist had created a painting while working on the roof of a high-rise building
C.	They had heard that it offered a view of Paris that no one had ever seen before
D.	They knew that they would be able to confirm the accuracy of the paintings details for themselves

16. Why does the professor mention the practice of charging admission to buildings that displayed panoramas?
A.	To help explain why many panoramas no longer exist
B.	To Illustrate the high construction costs typical of the period
C.	To describe how artists were paid for their paintings
D.	To explain why panoramas were not popular

17. Why does the professor say this
A.	To suggest that the development of panoramas could not have been predicted
B.	To give examples of nineteenth-century inventions that were more important than the panorama
C.	To emphasize the point that people were beginning to see their surroundings in a new way
D.	To indicate that he is not certain which of the inventions he mentions came first

Section 2
Conversation 2
1. What are the speakers mainly discussing?
A.	The students opinion of the professors class
B.	The students grade on a recent test
C.	The professors idea about staring a French club
D.	The upcoming events scheduled for the French club

2. How does the student know about the Spanish club?
A.	He has seen flyers about the club's events
B.	He helped start the club last semester
C.	His Spanish professor asked him to join
D.	His roommate told him about it

3. What does the student imply about his high school French classes?
A.	They were not as comprehensive as thee current class
B.	They were more interesting than the current class.
C.	They did not help prepare him for college-level classes.
D.	They helped him become interested in French films

4. How does the student first react when the professor asks him to organize a French club?
A.	He is enthusiastic about planning activities
B.	He is afraid that the professor will not help him
C.	He is confident that many students will join
D.	He is doubtful that he has enough time

5. What factors influence the student's decision to start the club? Click on 2 answers
A.	He wants to get a good grade in the class
B.	He wants to improve his resume
C.	He enjoys speaking French outside of the classroom.
D.	He has prior experience running a club.

Lecture 3
6.What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	The various well-known effects of mass wasting
B.	The processes involved in slower types of mass wasting
C.	The characteristics of mass wasting in permafrost regions
D.	The practice of building in areas where mass wasting occurs

7. What is one condition that the professor mentions that is necessary for creep to occur?
A.	A hill or mountain has a steep slope
B.	Water is present to move loose soil down the slope
C.	There must be trees growing on the side of the slope
D.	There is a soil layer that expands and contracts on a periodic basis

8. According to the professor, how is solifluction different from creep? Click on 2 answers
A.	Solifluction requires less soil moisture than creep
B.	Solifluction is more difficult to measure
C.	Solifluction moves soil in one mass
D.	Solifluction requires cold temperatures

9. What does the professor imply when he apologizes for using Spitsbergen as an example?
A.	He does not think it is the best example of the process of solifluction
B.	He knows that the students would prefer to hear about the local area
C.	He has talked about Spitsbergen in previous classes.
D.	He is sorry that the students are unfamiliar with Spitsbergen

10. What does the professor think is the reason for slow solifluction rates in some areas of Spitsbergen?
A.	Differences in the thickness of the permafrost
B.	The effect of wind on the accumulation of snowfall
C.	The varying amount of snowfall from year to year
D.	The use of slope stabilization techniques in those areas

11. What is the professors opinion of the construction of buildings in permafrost areas?
A.	It is well worth the risks
B.	It always speeds up the process of solifluction
C.	It should be done only if specific guidelines are followed
D.	It is safe because the ground is permanently frozen

Building Materials

It is difficult to exaggerate the radical change that the new industrial world of the nineteenth century brought to architectural materials. Since the beginning of architectural history, the same basic substances had been employed. They were provided directly by nature and used in near-natural state, only cut, shaped, and dried into the functional forms of timbers, stone blocks, and clay bricks. The exceptions were lime mortar and Roman concrete. Metals, which had the tensile strength that masonry materials lacked, were employed in minor and supplementary ways. Bronze was expensive as well as brittle. Iron, the structurally more important metal, was available in limited quantities and uneven quality, and was too easily converted to rust by the elements. It was, therefore restricted in use to things such as tie-rods and chains, and, along with bronze, to masonry clamps and decoration. Prior to the nineteenth century, the structural presence of iron in architecture was scarcely noticeable.

The Industrial Revolution changed all that. Iron materials became available in such large quantities that they could play far more than a minor architectural role. In 1800, the world production of iron stood at 825,000 tons; by 1830 it was 1, 825, 000 tons, and nearly 40, 000,000 in 1900--an increase of almost 50-fold over the century. The growth was not only in quantity, but quality as well. Iron, found bountifully in Earth's crust as an oxide, is a material of almost protean variability. It is not simply pure or impure, but can be made hard or soft, brittle or ductile, strong or weak. These qualities depend on carbon content, freedom from impurities (slag), and heating and cooling treatments of the refined metal. Traditionally, three versions existed: cast iron, wrought iron, and steel. Cast iron is the crudest form, containing the most impurities and thus being extremely brittle. Wrought iron, because it includes almost no carbon, is highly malleable (hence its name), but also comparatively soft. The optimum material is steel, which incorporates a restricted amount of carbon for hardness but is otherwise free of impurities, giving it great strength, and which, as a result of tempering treatments, is also malleable.

Cast and wrought iron came into prodigious manufacture in the early and mid-nineteenth century as a result of rapid growth in demand, new means to transport materials and more efficient iron-founding techniques. But the mass production of steel required further technological innovations to rid the metal of weakening impurities and to control more perfectly the amount of carbon added. Such advances were made with the Bessemer process (put into use in 1860) and the open-hearth process of 1864; scientific iron metallurgy in the last third of the century perfected these techniques

A significant but little-known fact is that the main form of increased steel production was technically not steel but a kind of wrought iron. It lacked a crucial property of true steel -its hardening power—yet it differed from the older forms of wrought iron because it was free from the weakening presence of slag, at the same time being malleable (unlike cast iron). It was called steel only because the name carried the status of a high-quality and high-priced product.

Another alternative new building substance was concrete, composed of an aggregate of broken stone, gravel, or other small chunks of hard matter embedded in a matrix of lime, sand, and water. First used in Roman times, its modern revival depended on the invention of portland cement in 1824, a substance of many times greater strength, durability and fire resistance than ancient lime cement. Mass-produced concrete began to come into widespread use in the 1850s and 1860s, in the construction of the sewers of Paris, for example. However, even with portland cement, the use of concrete was still severely restricted by its low tensile strength, but the remedy was at hand in the newly available iron and steel; their properties complemented those of concrete. The latter material was cheap, easily molded into large structural forms with great compressive but little tensile strength. Iron and steel, on the other hand, were expensive, difficult to shape, yet endowed with extreme tensile strength and easily procurable in the simple form of long, thin bars.
1.	According to paragraph 1, building materials in use before the nineteenth century were
not significantly changed from their natural forms
strong and durable
too expensive to use on a large scale
eventually replaced by lime mortar and Roman concrete

2.	In paragraph 1, the author discusses the properties of bronze and iron in order to
contrast the qualities of bronze with those of iron
explain why metals were not widely used in architecture before industrialization
provide a reason why industrialization radically changed architectural materials
demonstrate that decorative materials were used in architecture before industrialization

3.	According to paragraph 2, how does steel compare with other forms of iron?
It is the most widely available because it is the easiest to produce.
It is the hardest because it contains the least carbon.
It is the easiest to shape because it contains the fewest impurities.
It is the most useful because it is both strong and flexible.

4.	According to paragraph 4, how did the wrought iron referred to as steel differ from true steel?
It was softer than true steel.
It contained more impurities than true steel did.
It was less expensive than true steel.
It could not be shaped as easily as true steel.

5.	According to paragraph 4, why did some manufacturers of wrought iron call their product steel?
To differentiate their product from cast iron
To indicate that their product did not contain slag
To take advantage of the value attached to true steel
To suggest that steel could be as soft as wrought iron

6.	According to paragraph 5, all the following were advantages of concrete made with portland cement EXCEPT
It lasted longer than other types of concrete
It did not burn as easily as other types of concrete
It was stronger than other types of concrete
It was cheaper than other types of concrete

7.	Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information
Even with portland cement, concrete had a lower tensile strength than iron and steel did and thus was used less as these metals became more available.
The new availability of iron and steel complemented the use of concrete but could not make up for the low tensile strength of portland cement.
Like iron and steel, concrete went from being a material whose use was severely restricted to being one that was widely available.
The widespread use of concrete would not have been possible without iron and steel to offset its low tensile strength.
8.  The wordList “revival” in the passage is closest in meaning to
application
return to use
manufacture
result

9.	 Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

The remedy to concrete's shortcomings was to reinforce it with such bars
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage
10.	An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.

Industrialization in the nineteenth century revolutionized building materials.
Answer Choices
The only early building materials that were not provided directly by nature were lime mortar and Roman concrete.
Technological advances and increased demand led to the production of vast quantities of cast and wrought iron in the first half of the nineteenth century.
In the second half of the nineteenth century, it became possible to mass produce steel that was both strong and malleable.
Cast iron and wrought iron were the most common building materials until they were replaced by steel in the last third of the nineteenth century.
The problem with iron as a building material is that, unlike wood and masonry, it quickly rusts.
The introduction of Portland cement led to the large-scale use of concrete as a building material.

Dealing with Extreme Cold

There are a number of environments in which organisms are exposed to temperatures below 0℃ and thus the risk of freezing. In polar regions, terrestrial organisms are exposed to freezing temperatures for most of the year. In more temperate regions, they may have to tolerate several months of winter, when subzero temperatures persist for long periods of time. High mountains are another place where there is permanent snow and ice, even at the equator. Exposure to subzero temperatures may occur on a daily and/or seasonal basis

Endothermic animals (warm-blooded animals) can stop their bodies from freezing by generating their own heat. They retain heat because of the insulation provided by feathers or fur, and the layer of fat beneath the skin. Other heat conservation measures include huddling together, recovering heat from exhaled breath, and recovering heat from the extremities of the body. Endotherms can remain active in the cold if they can find enough food, or they can reduce their metabolism and lie dormant until warmer conditions return. Although air temperatures may be low, the temperature beneath an insulating layer of snow, under the ground, or at the bottom of a lake may remain above 0℃. Most organisms, however, can neither generate their own heat nor avoid the freezing temperatures, and for them, the choice is to survive ice formation within their bodies or to prevent their bodies from freezing.

Organisms run the risk of freezing at temperatures that are below the melting point of their body, and cell fluids. There are two main responses: either they can survive ice forming within them (they are freezing tolerant) or they have mechanisms that ensure that their fluids remain liquid at temperatures that are below the freezing point of water and the melting point of their body fluids (they are freeze avoiding). The strategy that an organism uses depends on the structure and physiology It has developed during its evolutionary history and on the particular demands of its environment. If the organism is living in a wet or damp environment, ice is likely to make contact with its surface when its surroundings freeze. This may cause its body fluids to freeze by the ice traveling across the cell or body wall, or through body openings-a process known as inoculative freezing. Most organisms surviving low temperatures in such environments are thus likely to be freezing tolerant, since inoculative freezing will cause their bodies to freeze. Some, however, may have a structure such as a cuticle, eggshell, cocoon, or sheath that allows them to prevent inoculative freezing by acting as a barrier to the spread of ice into their bodies. This allows them to maintain their body or cell fluids as liquids, despite the fact that their surfaces are in contact with external ice, and enables them to avoid inoculative freezing. In a situation where the organism is likely to be exposed to subzero temperatures with little or no water in contact with its surface (many terrestrial insects, for example),it does not have the problem of inoculative freezing and it is perhaps easier for it to maintain its body fluids in a liquid state at low temperatures and thus survive by avoiding freezing.

The two strategies of cold survival are, however, not always mutually exclusive. There have been a few reports of insects that were apparently freezing tolerant switching to being freeze avoiding. The overwintering larvae of a beetle from northern Indiana, when studied in the winters of 1977-1979, froze at-8℃ to-12℃ but survived down to -28℃. When examined again in 1982, however, they froze and were killed at -26℃, apparently switching from a freezing-tolerant to a freeze-avoiding strategy during the intervening years. There are adaptations in common between freeze-avoiding and freezing-tolerant insects that may make it easy to switch between the two strategies. It must be said, however, there has been only one other report of an insect, another beetle, displaying a shift in strategy of this sort. One Antarctic nematode is freezing tolerant when immersed in water but, when free of surface water, there is, of course, no inoculative freezing and it can survive by avoiding freezing. The cold-tolerance strategy displayed thus depends on the particular characteristics of the animal's microenvironment

1. According to paragraph 2, how does a layer of fat beneath the skin help an animal deal with subzero temperatures?
It prevents blood from circulating to the animal’s extremities
It helps the animal generate its own heat
It reduces the loss of body heat
It helps the animal to adjust its metabolism

2. Paragraph 2 supports which of the following statements about endothermic animals?
Some avoid freezing by remaining under a layer of snow, under the ground, or near the bottom of a lake
They are unable to remain active when temperatures are below 0℃ over long periods of time
They are sometimes able to survive ice formation within their bodies in addition to being able to avoid freezing
The ones that lie dormant in freezing temperatures tend to have less effective insulation than those that remain active

3. According to paragraph 3, an organism is freezing tolerant if it
can live in an environment in which temperatures are generally below freezing
has body and cell fluids with a very low melting point
has more than one effective response to freezing temperatures
can survive having the fluids in its cells freeze

4. According to paragraph 3, having a cocoon or an eggshell may give an organism living in very low temperatures an advantage by
making it freezing tolerant
lowering the melting point of its body fluids
protecting its outer surface from contact with ice
preventing Ice from getting inside its body

5. The information about the overwintering larvae of a beetle from northern Indiana is presented to show
that the particular cold-survival strategy an organism adopts is not necessarily a permanent characteristic of the species
how long it takes an organism to switch from one cold-surviving strategy to the other
what types of adaptation make it possible for an organism to switch between the two cold-surviving strategies
why adopting a freeze-avoiding strategy for cold survival rather than a freezing-tolerant strategy might be advantageous

6. The phrase "intervening years" in the passage is closest in meaning to
remaining years
colder years
years in between
years studied

7. The wordList “immersed” in the passage is closest in meaning to
caught
floating
hiding
covered

8. At the end of paragraph 4, the author discusses an Antarctic nematode because
it illustrates the kind of adaptations that freeze avoiding and freezing-tolerant organisms have in common
it shows that it is possible for organisms to switch between the two cold-survival strategies more than once
it explains why it is easy for beetles to switch between the two cold-survival strategies
the cold-survival strategy it displays is determined by the particular circumstances in which it finds itself

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage

Thus there are usually places available where an inactive organism can wait out the cold without expending much energy to keep itself from freezing

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

In many diverse environments, organisms must deal with the danger of freezing.

Answer Choices：
Even in environment in which air temperature are below freezing for long periods, there are generally some protected places in which temperatures remain safely above freezing

Organisms in wet environments that cannot avoid inoculative freezing can survive extreme cold only by being able to tolerate having their body fluids freeze.

Freezing-tolerant beetles have been found to survive temperatures below -28℃，whereas beetles of the same species that are freeze avoiding could not survive temperatures below -26℃.

Most endothermic animals must hibernate below an insulating layer of snow to avoid freezing because fur and feathers alone do not provide enough insulation.

Freeze-avoiding organisms have body fluids that remain liquid below 0℃, and they either live in dry environments or are protected from inoculative freezing by their outer covering

Certain adaptations are shared by freezing-tolerant and freeze-avoiding organisms, and in rare cases this allows organisms to switch between the two cold-survival strategies
temperatures as low as -28℃, whereas beetles of the

Ancient Greek Pottery

An extremely important and long-standing industry in ancient Greece was the ceramics industry, giving rise to the huge number of pieces of pottery archaeologists and historians pore over. In reality，pottery production can almost be seen as a combination of a natural resources-based economy and a production-based economy, as the primary material—good clay—was a result of the natural geology. However, not all city-states made equal use of their clay resources, and only two—Corinth and Athens—were really active in pottery export in the Archaic Age(750-500 B. C )and following.

As with weaving, pottery no doubt began as, and in many places remained, a household industry, probably practiced exclusively in the summer when the clay and kindling wood were drier and easier to transport and burn. But evidence of a more concentrated effort at production for export appeared already in the Bronze Age (3000-1100 B.C. ) and continued in the Dark Ages (1100-800 BC), as with the copious export of Euboean scyphi (drinking cups)to such locations in the Mediterranean as Cyprus, the Levant, and even Italy. These were followed by the Corinthian cups and scyphi, and finally the Athenian kylix(a shallow type of wine goblet). The demand for Greek vessels to drink out of appears to have stemmed from a desire for Greek things to drink, and amphorare and pithoi (storage vessels), especially from Attica, also proliferated in the Mediterranean

This need for commercial production led to the rise of workshops and factories. Such workshops were usually family-owned businesses run by the head of the household, his sons (and possibly daughters), and, depending on the size of the industry, additional servants and/or slaves. The general assumption concerning many professional potters is that they were not citizens of the cities in which they worked. In Athens, these were the metics, or resident aliens, as well as slaves. The identity of the workers in the primary ceramic working area in Corinth—the Potters Quarter—is uncertain. But an inscribed pottery shard naming the Phoenician goddess Astarte suggests that there were Phoenician immigrants (from what is now Lebanon) working there, or at least a heavy Phoenician influence.

Happily for modern researchers, many artisans signed their works. This gives an idea not only of who these ancient ceramicists were, but also of how labor was divided. Modern scholars have the names of a few potter-families from sixth-century B.C. Athens: Nearkhos, who worked with his sons Tleson and Ergoteles; Ergotimos, who was succeeded by his son Eukheiros (literally, "Good Hand")and Amasis and his son Kleophrades, who produced pottery from the mid-sixth century B.C. to the dawn of the fifth. The signatures indicate, however, that although these men fashioned and fired the ceramics, others were employed to paint the more elaborate figural vases. Such artists traveled around to different workshops, like the sixth-century Epictetus, whose name as a painter accompanied about six different names of potters.

Starting around 550 B.C. ,numbers were scratched onto the bottoms of some vases, often

appearing after the name of the vase in full or abbreviated form. These may have been batch numbers, indicating groups of pots fired together and intended for specific merchants or markets. The merchants were also indicated by markings on some vases, whereby a signature sign or abbreviation indicated to which exporter or importer in the receiving city the pottery was destined. In the sixth century B.C., such merchants were frequently lonians (Greeks from cities on the Mediterranean coast of Asia Minor) who were responsible for much of the import-export business at Naucratis in the south and Gravisca in the west.

But the most important markings from the point of view of economics are the actual" price tags” etched in to some pots. An important difference in the price occurred between painted and undecorated vases, with a markup of anywhere from 25 to 50 percent for the figural vases. Clearly, this was because the pottery manufacturer had to pay for the additional labor.

1.According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of Greek pottery?
Pottery was produced only in Corinth and Athens because they were the only areas with the necessary clay resources
The huge number of pottery pieces surviving today indicates that many city-states all over ancient Greece produced pottery for export
Pottery production in Greece was made possible by the good natural resources of that area
Pottery was not really an important industry in ancient Greece because so few city-states were active in it

2. The wordList copious in the passage is closest in meaning to
abundant
occasional
profitable
combined

3. Why does the author mention “the Athenian kylix”?
Too give an example of a type of ancient pottery produced for export by Greek potters
To emphasize how great a number of Greek city-states produced pottery for export
To compare the pottery produced in Athens to the pottery made in Corinth
To explain why there was such a demand for Greek drinking vessels

4. It can be inferred from paragraph 2 that amphorae and pithoi were
not produced by Greek city-states that made cups and goblets
imported by the Greek city-state from other locatios in the Mediterranean
used by the Greeks to store and export liquids
not in demand as Greek export products

5. Why does the author mention the Phoenician goddess Astarte?
To contrast the place of origin of professional potters in Corinth and Athens
To provide evidence that suggests that professional potters were often not citizens of the Greek city-states in which they worked
To illustrate the primary purpose for pottery production in Corinth
To provide an example of the type of pots that were produced in the ancient Greek pottery industry

6. The wordList elaborate in the passage Is closest in meaning to
beautiful
expensive
complicated
numerous

7. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information
Merchants signed some vases in order to indicate to which city they intended to export the pottery
On some vases, the specific merchant receiving the pottery was indicated by a signature marking
The merchants receiving the pottery often added their own signature signs or abbreviations to those already indicated
On some vases, there were both markings to designate merchants and signature signs to indicate the intended destination for the vase


8. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

These artists therefore did not create the ceramics and were not often attached to anyone workshop where the pots were being made.

Where would the sentence best it? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage



9. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.

Ceramics was an important industry in ancient Greece that gave rise to the many pieces of pottery that researchers currently study.

Answer Choices
Though at first a household activity, in some city-states Greek pottery became an industry exporting products all over the Mediterranean.
All of the Greek city-states used their clay resources to build an active pottery production and exporting industry.
The making of pots originally took place only in the summer because the clay and kindling were drier and easier to transport and burn.
Professional potters worked in family-run workshops and factories and were often not citizens of the city in which they worked.
Different markings found on pots have revealed the identity of potters and various economic factors involved in the ancient ceramic industry.
Markings on pottery have shown that elaborately painted vases were made in the Potters’ Quarter, the ceramic working area in Corinth.

Task 2

Some college students choose to prepare for careers where there are more job opportunities. Others choose to study subjects that interest them regardless of job opportunities. Which do you think is better and why?

Preparation Time 15 Seconds

Response Time 45 Seconds


Task 3

Reading Time:50 seconds
New Course Credit Policy

Western University allows undergraduate students with a high grade average to take courses in our graduate school programs. Until now, these students received course credit toward their undergraduate degrees.
Beginning next year ,however ,undergraduates taking graduate-level courses will not only receive credit toward their undergraduate degrees; if they go on to enroll as graduate students at Western, they can also apply these credits toward a graduate degree. This new policy will encourage our best undergraduates to take advantage of our graduate course offerings while they are undergraduates and also to make Western University their first choice for graduate school later on.

Sincerely,
Robert Steele

Question: The man disagrees with the new policy Explain why.
Preparation Time 30 Seconds

Response Time 60 Seconds
Task 4

Reading Time: 50 seconds
Role Distancing
Throughout our lives, we take on many social roles, such as son or daughter, friend, and parent. Role help us know how to behave and we are generally comfortable in them. Sometimes, however, people want to separate themselves from a role they are enacting; they want to show that this role does not represent who they really are. When people use their behavior to convey such detachment from a role, they are engaged in role distancing. People often use gestures, facial expressions, and tone of voice to distance themselves from roles they are uncomfortable performing.
Question

use the example described by the professor to explain what role distancing is.

Preparation Time 30 Seconds

Response Time 60 Seconds
Task 6

Using the points from the talk, describe the two theories that explain the extinction of the dinosaur.
Preparation Time 20 Seconds
Response Time 60 Seconds

The Plain of Jars is an archaeological site in the Southeast Asian country of Laos. At the site hundreds of large stone jars, ranging in size from one to three meters, are scattered across the countryside. These numerous large containers are around 2,000 years old. The original purpose of the jars is unknown, but archaeologists have several theories

First, the jars may have been used for fermentation. In fermentation, food or drink is left in a sealed container in order to undergo a chemical change According to some local residents, the jars were originally constructed by a king in order to ferment a special beverage to celebrate a great victory. It would be possible to use the jars for fermentation, so the local people's story could be true

Second, the jars may have been used for water storage. Laos experiences rainy and dry season sand finding water during the dry seasons can be difficult The Plain of Jars is located near ancient trade routes, where traveling traders may have needed drinking water The jars could have been constructed to collect water during the rainy season so that traders passing through the area would have a source of drinking water during the dry season

Third, it is possible that the Plain of Jars was an ancient burial site, and the jars were tombs (places where human remains are deposited) Much of the contents of the ancient jars is now gone, but they are large enough to hold human remains. Furthermore, artifacts such as metal tools, jewelry, and glass beads have been found in some of the jars. Burying the dead alongside valuable artifacts was a common practice in ancient cultures. Ancient people may have buried their dead in the jars along with the artifacts

In many places, students must arrive very early in the morning to attend school. Some people believe that starting the school day early is the best approach to support learning, but others believe that starting the school day at a late time in the morning would be better for students. Which view do you agree with and why?

Conversation 1

1. Why does the student go to see the man?
To check on the status of some repairs she requested
To complain about the quality of some repair work
To find out why her room has been scheduled for repair work
To report that some additional repair work will be needed
2. According to the student, why do some people have their windows open in her building?
Their windows are broken and they cannot close them
They are responding to an order from the fire inspector
They are trying to clear the smell of fresh paint from their rooms
They are trying to create a comfortable temperature in their rooms
3. Why does the student mention her friend Bob?
To emphasize that she is not the only student who is experiencing problems
To emphasize that the problem she is describing cannot be easily fixed
To explain why she will not need the building manager’s help
To explain how she learned there was a problem in her room

4. What does the student imply when she talks about moving to an off-campus apartment?
She will not be able to move for a few days
She cannot stay in the apartment indefinitely
She has not been happy with the security staff in her dormitory
She is not confident that the problems can be fixed in her dormitory room



5. What does the man imply when he says this
He is not sure what is causing the problem
It is the student's fault that she has a problem
The student is probably right about the source of the problem
He does not understand the students description of her problem
Lecture 1

6. What does the professor mainly discuss?
The relationship between painting techniques and types of paint that are used
Reasons for the changes in the popularity of oil paint since the seventeenth century
The historical development and use of oil paint
The main differences between oil paint and tempera
7. What reasons does the professor give for the popularity of oil paint among modern artists?

Click on 2 answers
It can be used for a number of painting styles
It allows artists to make changes
It does not fade easily
It can be made easily even by amateur painters
8. What property do tempera and acrylic paint have in common?
They do not stick well to the canvas
They tend to crack as they dry
They tend to make colors look dull
They dry very quickly
9.What are two points the professor makes about the painter Jan van Eyck?

Click on 2 answers
He did not invent the use of oil as a binder
He improved his own oil mixtures by heating them
He invented tempera
He applied oil paint to a canvas in thin layers
10. Why does the professor talk about combining delicate brushstrokes with thick brushstrokes?
To explain the popularity of van Eyck's paintings
To describe a difference between linseed oil and olive oil as a binder
To indicate that artists became more experienced in the use of oil paint
To point out a similarity between the painters van Eyck and van Gogh
11. Why does the professor mention Vincent van Gogh?
To emphasize that paintings made with thick brushstrokes were unpopular in the past
To show that artists did not know how to use oil paints correctly until the nineteenth century
To describe the origin of a painting technique used by the French Impressionists
To support his statement about when painters first began to use thick brushstrokes
Lecture 2

1. What is the lecture mainly about?
A new building material that resists the effects of harsh weather
A design for piers that prevents ice from accumulating
A construction technique that was developed quickly
A bridge design that was adapted for use in northern Europe
2. What major challenge in the design of the Confederation Bridge does the professor discuss?
The winding path of the Northumberland Strait
The depth of the water in which piers were placed
The ice sheets moving in the water
The erosive force of winds on building materials
3. According to the professor, what would be a likely consequence of the type of ice buildup that he describes?
The ice would prevent boats from passing under the bridge
The ice would cause the surface of the bridge to freeze
The ice would melt in warm weather and would flood the strait
The ice would have a negative effect on the coastal wildlife of Prince Edward Island
4. What was the purpose of adding"protective shields"?
To make it possible for the piers to carry more weight
To keep the temperature of the bridge stable
To break up the ice that comes in contact with the piers
To prevent the bridge from moving in the wind
5.Why does the professor say this
He is certain about the conditions that he describes
He barely remembers the conditions that he describes
He ought to know about the conditions, but he does not
The conditions that he describes are possible, but not likely
6. Why does the professor say this
He is surprised at the cost of the engineers’ solution
He is pleased with the engineers choice of materials
He is impressed by the engineers skill
He is inspired by the engineers’ enthusiasm
Section 2
Conversation 2
1. Why does the student have a scheduling conflict on Friday?
She has another class on Friday afternoons
The professor added a course requirement at the last minute
She has to go home to her parents on Friday
Her parents have unexpectedly changed their schedule
2. What does the professor complain about when the student arrives?
The quality of a film reel he recently received.
The number of students who missed seeing a film he showed in class.
A problem with reserving a classroom for showing a movie.
A miscommunication with staff of the media center.
3. Why does the professor mention an orchestra?
To help explain the plot of the film he will be showing in the next class
To help clarify the difference between watching a videotape and watching a film
To compare French films with those from other countries
To emphasize the importance of the background music in a film
4. Why is the professor not aware that Parents' Weekend is scheduled for the end of this week?
He thought it had been cancelled this year.
It is usually scheduled later in the year.
It was not listed in the official academic schedule.
He misread the academic calendar.
5. What is the professors attitude toward the students problem?
He is happy to accommodate the weekend plans that the student has made
He feels that the students academic responsibilities should have a higher priority
He believes that solving the problem is the responsibility of the university
He is sorry that the student will not be able to attend class
Lecture 3

1.	What is the lecture mainly about?
Results of a recent research study in development psychology
The rile of heredity in human development
Factors affecting the rate of human development
Basic rules that describe the usual path of human development
2. According to the professor, why have he studies on the role of heredity versus environment been inconclusive?
It is difficult to determine the specific influence of each factor
It is difficult to measure the influence of environment on physical development
It is difficult to measure intellectual development in the early stages
The influence of each factors changes depending in the stage of development
3. What example does the professor give to support her point about the rates at which development takes place?
A child's feet may grow faster than the child's arms
A child who appears mature may behave in a childish way
A child who is a slow learner can develop into a bright adolescent.
Children today grow faster than did children of previous generations
4. Why does the professor mention babies sitting and standing?
To point out the ages at which a child can sit or stand
To show the relationship between motor development and intellectual development
To give an example of sequential development
To point out that all babies do not develop at the same rate
5. What does the professor say about the starting point of any particular developmental stage?
The start of each stage occurs at exactly the same age for all children
The start of each stage should be carefully charted by the parents
The start of each stage does not occur until the previous stage is completed
The start of each stage cannot be exactly predicted
6.Why does the professor say this
To encourage the students to give an answer
To point out a common misconception
To prevent an incorrect interpretation of her statement
To indicate that she is not certain about her statement

Underground Life
Until about the late 1980s, most scientists believed that life was restricted to the top few meters of the soil or ocean sediments.The few reports of organisms being recovered from great depths within Earth were dismissed as contamination with material from the surface layers.Two technical developments changed this view. The first was the development of drilling techniques that gave confidence that samples could be retrieved from depth without contamination. Samples were recovered using a diamond-studded drill bit that headed a great length of rotating steel pipe from a drilling derrick. A concentrated tracer material was added to the lubricating fluid so that when a deep sample of rock was removed, any contaminated material could be identified and cut away to leave a pristine sample of rock from deep within Earth. The second development was the advent of techniques for identifying microorganisms without having to grow them in culture. All organisms contain DNA, and their presence can be revealed by dyes that either stain DNA directly or can be attached to nucleic acid probes. By varying the nucleic acid probe, scientists can demonstrate the presence of different types of microorganisms.
The first scientists to use these techniques were involved in the Subsurface Science Program of the United States Department of Energy (DOE). They were interested in the possibility that if organisms existed in the depths of Earth, they might degrade organic pollutants and help maintain the purity of groundwater or, rather less usefully, degrade the containers in which the DOE was proposing to deposit the radioactive waste from nuclear facilities. They demonstrated the presence of many different types of microorganisms in rocks at depths down to 500 meters beneath the surface. Since then, microbes have been discovered in many different types of rocks and deep within ocean sediments. The record depth at which life has been found is at the bottom of a South African gold mine, 3.5 kilometers below ground. Pressure and temperature increase as you go deeper into Earth. Some scientists think that subsurface bacteria could withstand temperatures as high as 150°C. This would allow organisms to exist to depths of about 7 kilometers beneath the seafloor and to 4 kilometers below the surface of the land. Although the organisms are often sparsely distributed, this is such an enormous volume that it has been estimated that the total biomass of deep subsurface organisms exceeds that of those living on, or just below, the surface.
Bacteria are the most numerous of these subsurface organisms, but there are also fungi and protozoa. Some 10,000 strains of microorganism have been isolated from subsurface cores. Each gram of rock contains anything from 100 bacteria to 10 million bacteria (compared with more than 1 billion per gram in agricultural soils); ocean sediments contain even higher numbers. The protozoa feed on the bacteria, forming part of a simple subterranean food chain,but what do the bacteria feed on? Sedimentary rocks are formed from sands and from ocean, river, or lake sediments that have organic material trapped within them. Microbes living in pores within the sediments can utilize these ancient nutrients and grow. As sedimentary rocks are buried more deeply, they become increasingly compacted and their pores filled with minerals. The distribution of microorganisms is thus likely to become more patchy, condensed into the remaining pores and concentrations of nutrients. The bulk of Earth's crust, however, consists of igneous rocks, such as granite and basalt, which are solidified from molten magma. These rocks were too hot to support life when they were first formed; the organisms that inhabit cracks and fissures within the rocks are carried there by the groundwater flowing through them. Subsurface bacteria do not just rely on nutrients trapped within the rock or carried there by groundwater. Some are chemotrophs, deriving their energy from the oxidation of iron or sulfur compounds and building organic material directly from the carbon dioxide and hydrogen gas dissolved in the rock. These bacteria excrete organic compounds that are then utilized by other types of bacteria. These ecosystems based on chemotrophic bacteria are completely independent of material and solar energy from the surface.

1.  Select the TWO answer choices that, according to paragraph 1, indicate what scientists believed before the 1980s about underground organisms. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.
A. It was impossible for organisms to live beyond just few meters underground.
B. Organisms were filtered into the soil from ocean sediments.
C. Organisms that were supposedly found at great depths were actually from the surface layers.
D. Contamination from the surface layers of the soil was seriously affecting life underground.

2.  The wordList "pristine" in the passage is closest in meaning to
A. suitable
B. pure
C. precise
D. solid

3. According to paragraph 1, what is the purpose of using concentrated tracer material drilling?
A. To lubricate the drill
B. To obtain uncontaminated rock samples
C. To cut away the samples of rock
D. To identify rock sample types

4. According to paragraph 2, what is the greatest depth at which life has been found to this day?
A. 500 meters below ground
B. 3.5 kilometers below ground
C. 4 kilometers below ground
D. 7 kilometers beneath the seafloor

5.  The author asks “what do the bacteria feed on?" for the purpose of
A. presenting a problem that scientists have not yet been able to solve
B. expressing doubts about the theory that bacteria can live at great depths
C. introducing the explanation that answers the question
D. arguing against the idea that bacteria form part of a subterranean food chain



6. The wordList “compacted” in the passage is closest in meaning to
A. complicated
B. strengthened
C. absorbent
D. Compressed


7.  Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 3 about the organisms in cracks and fissures in igneous rock?
A. They produce the cracks and fissures in the rock.
B. They grow in the molten magma that forms the rock.
C. They can survive changing temperatures.
D. They have not originated in the igneous rock.

8. According to paragraph 3, why are chemotrophic bacteria important to their ecosystems?
A. They compete with other microorganisms.
B. They allow other bacteria to use organic compounds.
C. They do not depend on the iron or sulfur compounds that other microorganisms consume.
D. They process material and solar energy for other underground organisms to use.

9. Look at the four squares   that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

However, it would be wrong to think that these factors make life at great depths impossible.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
It is only recently that living organisms have been found below the top few meters of the soil or ocean sediments.
Answer Choices
It became necessary to develop techniques that would prevent the lubricating fluid on the drill from contaminating the samples recovered from the depths.

Subsurface life is thought to live at greater depths and to resist higher temperatures than was once thought possible.

Rather than consuming other food available, chemotrophs process some minerals they find in rocks to obtain the nutrients they need.

The discovery of subsurface life was enabled by the development of sophisticated drilling and microorganism identification techniques.

Scientists involved in the Subsurface Science Program found underground life accidentally while studying the effects of pollution on groundwater.

The food chain below the surface involves fungi, protozoa, bacteria, and the organic material and minerals in or derived from sedimentary and igneous rock.


The Revolution of Cheap Print
The first half of the nineteenth century saw dramatic changes in the economics of the printed wordList in both the United States and Europe, though the changes generally happened earlier and on a wider basis in America. In the 1830s and 1840s, sharp reductions in prices for newspapers and books in America highlighted the advent of an era of cheap print. Now there were daily newspapers that instead of 6 cents per copy sold for a penny or two. Now there were novels that instead of an earlier price of $2 sold for 25 cents or less, when the same books in Britain cost the equivalent of more than $7. So steep were the declines in the price of print over so short a period that they amounted to an information-price revolution, the first of several such episodes of declining prices that have profoundly affected information and culture during the past two centuries. Two mid-nineteenth American cultural innovations, the “penny press” and the “dime novel," were actually named for their low price. These were criticized for being cheap in both senses of that wordList: low in price and low in taste. But low price did not necessarily mean lowbrow. Increasingly, book publishers issued even the most esteemed works in cheap as well as expensive editions to reach as wide a public as possible. The information-price revolution also affected religious and political publishing, as reading became a basis of mass time persuasion for the first time in history.
Cheap print was not entirely unprecedented. In seventeenth- and eighteenth-century England and France, cheap collections of stories, ballads and other miscellany had circulated among the lower classes. But since only a minority of the poor could read, most listened while a few read aloud; thus cheap print reached not so much a reading as a listening public. The expansion of cheap print in the nineteenth century in America and Europe was on a much larger scale, and it took place during a great increase in popular literacy. Together these amounted to a cultural watershed. Traditionally, even in literate homes, books and other publications had been relatively rare and treasured objects; reading meant returning to few texts, especially religious works. But with the explosion of print, reading became more varied, and readers scanned newspapers, magazines, and cheap books that they soon passed on or discarded. Intensive reading of religious and other works did not disappear, but reading became an increasingly common form of diversion as well as devotion.
The usual explanation for the rise of cheap print emphasizes new technology.  Unquestionably, the full development of cheap print could not have happened without technological change. Print, however, had already become cheaper in America before technological advances played a significant role; new technology arrived once the process was under way, not at the beginning. This was no accident: the continuing expansion of print created an incentive for technological innovation. To conceive of technology as the causal force is to understate the prior importance of politics, culture, and markets in creating the conditions that allowed investments in new technology to pay off.
Cheap print was public policy in America. While European governments taxed newspapers and other publications, the United States let them go tax free and even subsidized them, to a degree, through the postal system. The rise of cheap books and other forms of cheap print in the United States also reflected distinctive patterns of nineteenth-century American consumer markets. As the economic historian Nathan Rosenberg remarks, citing the cases of cutlery, guns, boots, and clothing. “Americans readily accepted products which had been deliberately designed for low cost, mass production methods" at a time when handmade goods persisted in Britain. Books fit this pattern. Americans had not been primarily responsible for introducing new manufacturing technology to the production of books. On the contrary, most of the key advances in printing and papermaking before 1850 had traveled west across the Atlantic rather than the reverse. But the industrialization of book production proceeded more rapidly in the United States, where the market by the middle decades of the century was not only larger than in Britain but also apparently more sensitive to price than to quality, perhaps because elite readers constituted a smaller proportion of book buyers.

1. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 1 as being true of nineteenth-century print prices EXCEPT:
A. Prices first experienced a significant decrease in the 1830s and 1840s.
B. Daily newspapers that sold for cents in Britain sold for a penny or two in America.
C. Some American novels declined in price from two dollars to about 25 cents.
D. Reductions in print prices had effects that lasted well into the twentieth century.

2. The wordList “unprecedented" in the passage is closest in meaning to
A. reliable
B. new
C. accepted
D. Effective

3. According to paragraph 2, which of the following was true of cheap print in seventeenth- and   eighteenth-century England and France?
A. An increase in popular literacy allowed cheap print to succeed.
B. Cheap publications of stories and ballads reached a wider readership in France than they did
 in England.
C. Decreasing print prices did not affect the reading habits of the upper classes.
D. Cheap print reached more people by being read aloud than by being read silently.

4. According to paragraph 2, reading changed in all of the following ways after the explosion of print EXCEPT:
A. Reading for amusement became more common.
B. People began to read books more carefully than they had in the past.
C. People began to read a greater variety of publications.
D. Readers began to discard books more frequently.

5. In paragraph 3, the author expresses which of the following points of view on the relationship   between technology and the development of cheap print?
A. Changes in technology, politics, culture, and markets all preceded the development of cheap print.
B. Technological advances were the most important causal force in the print revolution.
C. The arrival of new technology made the development of cheap print possible.
D. The growth of cheap print provided people with a reason to develop new technology.


6. Why does the author refer to Nathan Rosenberg’s remarks on "the cases of cutlery, guns, boots and clothing"?
A. To explain how new production methods used for books were quickly applied to other types of
 products
B. To point out similarities between consumer patterns in the United States and in Britain
C. To support the claim that books fit the pattern of the nineteenth-century American consumer markets
D. To explain why handmade products were not as popular in America during the nineteenth century as they were in Britain


7. The wordList “persisted” in the passage is closest in meaning to
A. spread
B. suffered
C. continued
D. Improved

8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
A. The American book industry's larger market and commitment to low prices prevented it from   selling books that were similar in quality to the books sold to British buyers.
B. Industrialization of book production occurred more rapidly in the United States than is usually   realized, perhaps because of the large markets and low prices that were common in the nineteenth century.
C. A larger market than in Britain and a greater demand for cheap books in the United States contributed to the faster industrialization of book production.
D. The industrialization of book production occurred more quickly in the United States than in Britain because elite readers in America were not as sensitive to quality as elite readers in Britain were.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

Although people did not read widely, or extensively, they read intensively so as to   thoroughly understand the limited number of books that were available for reading.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square   to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Cheap print experienced early success in the United States.
Answer Choices
Cheap print was initially criticized because it was feared that religious and moral reading would disappear and be replaced by reading solely for the purpose of diversion.

The introduction of cheap books to seventeenth- and eighteenth-century England and France did not succeed because most of the publications were of little interest to the general public.

Books and other kinds of publications followed the pattern of the American consumer markets of the time, and American consumers were more willing than Europeans to buy mass-produced products.

The growth of cheap print gave more parts of the population access to different kinds of publications, and it affected the way people read and their primary reasons for reading.

Advances in printing technology originated mostly in Europe, but unlike European governments, the United States encouraged cheap print by not taxing newspapers and other publications.

By the end of the nineteenth century, low production costs made it possible for United States publishers to expand their markets and sell their books all over Europe.


Earth's Core
Knowledge of Earth's deep interior is derived from the study of the waves produced by earthquakes, called seismic waves. Among the various kinds of seismic waves are primary waves (P-waves) and secondary waves (S-waves). Primary and secondary waves pass deep within Earth and therefore are the most instructive. Study of abrupt changes in the characteristics of seismic waves at different depths provides the basis for a threefold division of Earth into a central core; a thick, overlying mantle; and a thin, enveloping crust. Sudden changes in seismic wave velocities and angles of transmission are termed discontinuities.

One of the discontinuities is the Gutenberg discontinuity, which is located nearly halfway to the center of Earth at a depth of 2,900 kilometers, and marks the outer boundary of Earth's core. At that depth, the S-waves cannot propagate, while at the same time P-wave velocity is drastically reduced. S-waves are unable to travel through fluids. Thus, if S-waves were to encounter a fluid like region of Earths interior, they would be absorbed there and would not be able to continue. Geophysicists believe this is what happens to S-waves as they enter the outer core. As a result, the S-waves generated on one side of Earth fail to appear at seismograph stations on the opposite side of Earth, and this observation is the principal evidence of an outer core that behaves as a fluid. Unlike S-waves, P-waves are able to pass through liquids. They are, however, abruptly slowed and sharply refracted (bent) as they enter a fluid medium. Therefore, as P-waves encounter the molten outer core of Earth, their velocity is reduced and they are refracted downward.

The radius of the core is about 3,500 kilometers. The inner core is solid and has a radius of about 1,220 kilometers, which makes this inner core slightly larger than the Moon. Most geologists believe that the inner core has the same composition as the outer core and that it can only exist as a solid because of the enormous pressure at the center of Earth. Evidence of the existence of a solid inner core is derived from the study of hundreds of records of seismic waves produced over several years. These studies showed that the inner core behaves seismically as if it were a solid.

Earth has an overall density of 5.5 grams per cubic centimeter, yet the average density of rocks at the surface is less than 3.0 grams per cubic centimeter. This difference indicates that materials of high density must exist in the deep interior of the planet to achieve the 5.5 grams per cubic centimeter overall density. Under the extreme pressure conditions that exist in the region of the core, iron mixed with nickel would very likely have the required high density. Laboratory experiments, however, suggest that a highly pressurized iron-nickel alloy might be too dense and that minor amounts of such elements such as silicon, sulfur, carbon, or oxygen may also be present to lighten the core material.

Support for the theory that the core is composed of iron (85 percent) with lesser amounts of nickel has come from the study of meteorites. Many of these samples of solar system materials are iron meteorites that consist of metallic iron alloyed with a small percentage of nickel. Some geologists suspect that iron meteorites may be fragments from the core of a shattered planet. The presence of iron meteorites in our solar system suggests that the existence of an iron-nickel core for Earth is plausible.
There is further evidence that Earth may have a metallic core. Anyone who understands the functioning of a compass is aware that Earth has a magnetic field. The planet itself behaves as if there was a great bar magnet embedded within it. A magnetic field is developed by the flow of electric charges and requires good electrical conductors. Silicate rocks, such as those in the mantle and crust, do not conduct electricity very well, whereas metals such as iron and nickel are good conductors. Heat-driven movements in the outer core, coupled with movements induced by Earths spin, are thought to provide the necessary flow of electrons (very small particles that carry a negative charge) around the inner core that produces the magnetic field. Without a metallic core, Earth’s magnetic field would not be possible.

1. The wordList “instructive” in the passage is closest in meaning to
inaccurate
intense
inaccessible
informative

2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following findings provides the basis for Earths division into three parts?
All seismic waves pass deep within Earth.
There are no significant differences in the behavior of P-waves and S-waves.
Discontinuities occur at different depths within Earth.
Earth's crust is too thin to account for the size of the planet.

3. Paragraph 3 supports which of the following statements about the inner core?
It is smaller in volume than the Moon.
It consists of materials different from those found in the outer core.
it is subject to more pressure than the outer core.
It is not solid even though it behaves seismically as f it were.

4. According to paragraph 4, why do scientists believe that Earths core consists of materials of very high density?
Under the extreme pressure conditions near the center of Earth, any materials would become very dense.
Without a very dense core, Earths overall density would not be as high as it is found to be.
Earths deep interior is known to be solid, and solids are always denser than liquids.
Earth's core is known to contain the same high-density rocks that are formed on Earth’s surface.

5. According to paragraph 4, why do scientists believe that Earths core contains materials other than iron mixed with nickel?
In the absence of such materials, the core might be too dense.
Iron and nickel do not m evenly without the presence of lighter elements.
Laboratory experiments showed that minor amounts of silicon, sulfur carbon, and oxygen are present in samples from Earths core.
Iron-nickel alloys always contain minor amounts of elements such as silicon, sulfur, carbon, or oxygen.
6. The wordList “embedded”in the passage is closest in meaning to
active
revolving
formed
enclosed

7. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
A combination of different motions produces Earth’s magnetic field, and the magnetic field is thought to cause a flow of electrons around the planet’s inner and outer core.
The flow of electrons around the planet that produces Earth's magnetic field is the combined effect of motions that are thought to occur in the planet’s inner core.
The flow of electrons around the inner core that produces Earth’s magnetic field is thought to be the joint result of motions in the outer core and motions caused by Earth’s spin.
Heat-driven motions in the outer core interact with motions caused by the spin of the inner core to produce a flow of electrons that is thought to result in Earth’s magnetic field.

8. In paragraph 6, why does the author discuss Earths magnetic field?
To cast doubt on its existence, given what scientists now know about Earths composition.
To provide additional support for the theory of an iron-nickel core for Earth.
To present a puzzling feature of Earth that has not yet been explained satisfactorily.
To explain why so many iron meteorites are found near Earth.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

Several of these have been named after their discoverers

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage


10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

Our knowledge of Earth’s interior is based on the study of the transmission of seismic waves within the planet.

Answer Choices
study of marked changed in the trans emission of seismic waves at different depths has led scientists to divide Earth into the crust, the mantle, and the core.
Studies of the transmission of seismic waves show that Earth’s core is less dense than the solid crust, which explains why the core exists mostly as a liquid.
Changes in the characteristics of seismic waves at the Gutenberg discontinuity support the conclusion that the outer part of Earth’s core is liquid.
Scientists believe that most of the iron and nickel found in Earth’s core came from iron meteorites scattered into space when the interior of an ancient planet broke apart.
Silicate rocks, which are found in Earth’s mantle and crust, are not good conductors of electricity.
A variety of evidence leads to the conclusion that Earth’s inner core is solid and compassed primarily of metals, which fits well with the fact that Earth has a magnetic field.

Task 1

A university wants to require all students to have their own laptop computers. Do you agree or disagree with this policy? Give specific reasons to support your opinion

Preparation Time: 15 Seconds

Response Time: 45 Seconds


Task 2

Reading Time: 50 seconds

Improving Dormitory Kitchen Use

I’ve noticed that most students don’t use the dormitory kitchens, which is unfortunate since students would probably enjoy preparing their own food.I think that the university should make improvements to the dormitory kitchens so that they will be more widely used. There are a few things that the university could do to encourage students to start kitchens regularly. First I think the kitchens should be modernized with new cookware for students to use. Also, I think free cooking classes should be given to stimulate students interest in cooking and make them want to use the kitchens.

Sincerely

Jennifer Adler


The students are discussing a proposal suggested in a letter written to the university newspaper. Briefly summarize the proposal and explain why the man agrees or disagrees with it.

Preparation Time: 30 Seconds

Response Time 60 Seconds


Task 3

Reading Time: 50 seconds

Deceptive Caching

When food is plentiful, animals often collect and hide extra food to eat when it is scarce. However other animals may try to steal this stored food and eat it themselves.To protect their food supply, some animals engage in deceptive caching. Using this technique, animals deceive other animals into thinking that food is hidden in one place, while it is actually hidden somewhere else. Deceptive catching tricks animals that try to steal food making it harder for them to find the food supply. If their attempts at stealing food are repeatedly unsuccessful, the animals often become discouraged and stop trying to steal hidden food.


Explain how the example of the eastern grey squirrel illustrates the concept of deceptive caching.

Preparation Time: 30 Seconds

Response Time 60 Seconds

Task 4

Using points and examples from the lecture, explain two ways stores use product bundling to sell more products

Preparation Time. 20 Seconds

Response Time 60 Seconds

Although the sale of rhinoceros horns is illegal worldwide, rhinoceroses (rhinos) are commonly poached (hunted illegally) for their horns, which can be sold for tens of thousands of dollars per kilogram. Rhino horns are so valuable that one type of rhino is already extinct because poachers killed too many of them. All rhinos may soon become extinct unless something is done to help save them. Several ideas have been suggested.

The first idea is for wildlife experts to " dehorn " rhinos living in the wild. Dehorning means removing the horns of living rhinos to make them less attractive to poachers. Horns can be removed without hurting the animals if medical equipment and drugs to calm the animals are used. When this strategy was tried on a small scale in the early 1990s, none of the rhinos dehorned at the time were killed by poachers.

The second possibility is to educate consumers. The majority of rhino horn sold is used in medicines Although rhino horn is believed to have health benefits, this belief has no scientific foundation. Rhino horn consists almost entirely of keratin, the same material found in human hair and nails. Keratin has no known health value. Educating consumers about keratin could greatly decrease the demand for rhino horn.

The third possibility is to legalize government sales of rhino horn. Some governments have large amount of horn, taken from poachers they have arrested. This horn is often kept in storage. However, if government sales were legal, large quantities of horn that governments already have could be sold at very low prices. Poachers kill rhinos because consumers pay high prices for their horns. If governments started selling cheap rhino horn, rhino poaching would no longer be profitable and would probably stop, at least for a while. That might help endangered rhino populations to recover.

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
It is better to live in one town or city all your life than to move from one place to another.

Section 1
Conversation 1

1.	Why did the professor make an appointment with the student?
A.	To discuss a book they both read
B.	To give her suggestions on her writing style
C.	To compliment her essay form
D.	To talk about the content of her essay

2.	What does the student NOT understand about the book? Click on 2 answers
A.	Why the main character decided to work overseas
B.	What point the author is trying to make
C.	I The reason the main character changes her mind
D.	Why the author included so many details about the main characters life

3.	What suggestions does the professor give the student to help her write her analysis?
Click in the correct boxes
Examine the main character's personality
Imagine herself as the main character
Take on the authors point of view
Describe events that occurred when the main character changed her opinion
Analyze the writing techniques of the author
Yes	No
4.	At the end of the meeting, what is the professor’s attitude toward the student?
A.	He is surprised that she is able to explain the book to him
B.	He is uncomfortable with her reaction to his suggestions
C.	He is encouraged that she understands the point he is making
D.	He is uncertain whether she will reread the book more closely

5.	Why does the professor say this to the student:
A.	To test her knowledge of the book
B.	To stimulate her thinking for her essay
C.	To help her realize that the author forgot to include some information
D.	To express his surprise at the authors technique



 
Lecture 1

1.	What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	The role that the neocortex plays in human memory
B.	The connection between neocortex size and social relationships in mammals
C.	Various studies that compare social group sizes in humans and other mammals
D.	Ways that humans can expand the size of their social groups

2.	Why does the professor discuss the length of some telephone numbers?
A.	To show that real-world applications are informed by cognitive psychology
B.	To point out an exception to a well-known principle about memory
C.	To explain why telephone numbers are used in tests of memory
D.	To explain why people often dial the wrong telephone number

3.	What does the professor imply about the size of a person’s sympathy group?
A.	It closely matches the size of the persons family
B.	It becomes larger when a person learns how to feel compassion for others
C.	It may not be something a person makes a conscious decision to control
D.	It may not be as predictable as the size of the persons social group

4.	What did Dunbar’s study of the records of some traditional hunter-gatherer societies indicate?
A.	Hunter-gatherer societies were the first to form social groups
B.	Tool usage by humans is related to social group size
C.	There is a maximum social group size for humans
D.	Hunter-gatherers tend to have smaller-sized social groups

5.	What does the professor say that biologists discovered in their research of animals other than primates?
A.	Dunbar’s hypothesis accurately predicts social group sizes for all animals
B.	Social group sizes of carnivores are more difficult to predict than those of insectivores
C.	Data on insectivore behavior neither support nor contradict Dunbar’s hypothesis
D.	The size of an animal’s neocortex is affected by its diet

6.	Why does the professor say this:
A.	To encourage students to spend more time developing relationships
B.	To emphasize that her point is based on personal experience
C.	To indicate that she realizes that the students already know the answer to her question
D.	To suggest that there is more than one possible response to her question
 
Section 2
Conversation 2

1.	Why does the student go to the housing office?
A.	To pay the fines that she has received
B.	To find out what time she needs to leave her building
C.	To explain why she should not have to pay her fines
D.	To report damage that her roommate has caused

2.	According to the man, why does the university hold both roommates responsible for dormitory room fines?
A.	The university expects roommates to divide their fines equally
B.	The university had difficulty collecting fines in the past
C.	This policy helps to reduce conflicts between roommates
D.	This policy results in less damage to dormitory rooms

3.	Why does the student mention a friend who lives in another dormitory?
A.	To explain the difference between what she did and what her friend did
B.	To explain why her friend did not have to pay a fine
C.	To show that she understands the university’s housing policy
D.	To point out that the university's housing policy seems inconsistent

4.	Why does the man believe the student probably will not need to pay one of the fines?
A.	The floor supervisor notified the housing office about the missing chair
B.	The student’s roommate has agreed to pay the fine
C.	The student was not responsible for filling out a form
D.	One of the fines was sent to the wrong person

5.	What can be inferred about the student when she says this:
A.	She cannot recall the supervisors name
B.	She does not understand what the man means
C.	She doubts that the man understands her problem
D.	She does not want to answer the man’s question
 
Lecture 2

1.	What is the main topic of the lecture?
A.	A method of packing coffee at high pressure and temperature
B.	A method of decaffeinating coffee while preserving its flavor
C.	Reasons why carbon dioxide is added to caffeinated soft drinks
D.	The critical importance of carbon dioxide for the food industry

2.	How does the professor organize the review of the phase diagram?
A.	By using an example of water vapor gradually changing to solid ice
B.	By showing phase changes that occur when pressure and temperature increase at the same time
C.	By first showing temperature-induced phase changes and then showing pressure-induced phase changes
D.	By first explaining the properties of gas and then introducing the properties of supercritical fluids

3.	Under what conditions do supercritical fluids form?
A.	When a solid begins turning into a liquid
B.	When a very hot gas is put under high pressure
C.	When certain solids dissolve in certain liquids
D.	When a liquid is at low temperature but under high pressure

4.	What two properties of supercritical fluids does the professor mention?
Click on 2 answers
A.	They can permeate solids
B.	They dissolve other substances
C.	They diffuse very slowly, just as liquids do
D.	They have low densities at high pressures

5.	The professor describes a process of caffeine extraction from coffee beans using carbon dioxide (CO2). Put the steps of the process in the correct order.
Click on a sentence. Then drag it to the space where it belongs.
The first one is done for you.
1.	Supercritical CO2 is led into a high-pressure chamber
Answer Choices
A.	Caffeine crystallizes
B.	CO2 permeates the beans
C.	The pressure is decreased
D.	Caffeine dissolves

6.	What does the professor imply when he says this:
A.	The process of caffeine extraction is less complicated than it sounds
B.	More research needs to be done on supercritical fluids
C.	He will explain what a supercritical fluid is to the class
D.	He will not spend much time reviewing supercritical fluids

 
Lecture 3

1.	What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A.	To determine the origin of modern restoration practices
B.	To explain why so many Renaissance sculptures exist today as fragments
C.	To present opposing viewpoints about art restoration
D.	To discuss the sculpture and painting typical of the Renaissance period

2.	According to the professor, what characteristic of the Bateman statue of Mercury reflects a typical Renaissance practice?
A.	Fragments of a surviving sculpture are preserved as fragments
B.	The base and the sculpture are carved from the same piece of stone
C.	The design plans of the original artist were used to re-create the sculpture
D.	Fragments from more than one sculpture were combined to make a single sculpture

3.	What is the male student’s attitude toward Cellini's practices?
A.	He thinks they showed a lack of creative thinking
B.	He thinks they were appropriate only in certain cases
C.	He does not consider them a valid form of restoration
D.	He does not think they have received the credit they deserve

4.	Why does the professor mention Michelangelo?
A.	Michelangelo exemplifies Renaissance artists who tried to preserve ancient artworks
B.	Some of Michelangelo’s own works were altered by restorers
C.	Michelangelo was instrumental in changing the restoration practices of the Renaissance
D.	Michelangelo’s works of art are considered aesthetically superior to those of Cellini

5.	How did the goals of restoration change in the eighteenth century?
A.	More emphasis was placed on invention
B.	More emphasis was placed on authenticity
C.	The emphasis shifted from historical accuracy to aesthetic beauty
D.	The emphasis shifted from restoring to recycling raw materials

6.	What does the professor imply when he says this:
A.	Cellini revived people's interest in the work of great artists
B.	Cellini's art required a wide variety of skills
C.	Cellini's actions were not consistent with his words
D.	Cellini was considered one of the greatest artists of his time

Physical Properties of Minerals
A mineral is a naturally occurring solid formed by inorganic processes. Since the internal structure and chemical composition of a mineral are difficult to determine without the aid of sophisticated tests and apparatus, the more easily recognized physical properties are used in identification.

Most people think of a crystal as a rare commodity, when in fact most inorganic solid objects are composed of crystals. The reason for this misconception is that most crystals do not exhibit their crystal form: the external form of a mineral that reflects the orderly internal arrangement of its atoms. Whenever a mineral forms without space restrictions, individual crystals with well-formed crystal faces will develop. Some crystals, such as those of the mineral quartz, have a very distinctive crystal form that can be helpful in identification. However, most of the time, crystal growth is interrupted because of competition for space, resulting in an inter grown mass of crystals, none of which exhibits crystal form.

Although color is an obvious feature of a mineral, it is often an unreliable diagnostic property. Sight impurities in the common mineral quartz, for example, give it a variety of colors, including pink, purple (amethyst) white and even black. When a mineral such as quartz exhibits a variety of colors, it is said to possess exotic coloration. Exotic coloration is usually caused by the inclusion of impurities, such as foreign ions in the crystalline structure. Other mineral--for example, sulfur, which is yellow and malachite, which is bright green--are said to have inherent coloration because their color is a consequence of their chemical makeup and does not vary significantly.

Streak is the color of a mineral in its powdered form and is obtained by rubbing a mineral across pate of unglazed porcelain.Whereas the color of a mineral often vanes from sample to sample, the streak usually does not and is therefore the more reliable property.

Luster is the appearance or quality of light reflected the surface of a mineral. Minerals that have the appearance of metals, regardless of color, are said to have a metallic luster. Minerals with a nonmetallic luster are described by various adjectives, including vitreous (glassy), pearly, silky, resinous, and earthy (dull).

One of the most useful diagnostic properties of a mineral is hardness, the resistance of a mineral to abrasion or scratching This property is determined by rubbing a mineral of unknown hardness against one of known hardness, or vice versa. A numerical value can be obtained by using Mohs’ scale of hardness, which consists of ten minerals arranged in order from talc, the softest, at number one, to diamond, the hardest, at number ten. Any mineral of unknown harness can be compared with these or with other objects of known hardness. For example, a fingernail has a hardness of 2.5, a copper penny 5, and a piece of glass 5.5. The mineral gypsum, which has a hardness of two, can be easily scratched with your fingernail. On the other hand, the mineral calcite which has a hardness of three, will scratch your fingernail but will not scratch glass. Quartz, the hardest of the common minerals, will scratch a glass plate

The tendency of a mineral to break along planes of weak bonding is called cleavage. Minerals that possess cleavage are identified by the smooth, flat surfaces produced when the mineral is broken. The simplest type of cleavage is exhibited by the micas. Because the micas have excellent cleavage in one direction, they break to form thin, flat sheets. Some minerals have several cleavage planes, which produce smooth surfaces when broken, while others exhibit poor cleavage, and still others exhibit no cleavage at all. When minerals break evenly in more than one direction, cleavage is described by the number of planes exhibited and the angles at which they meet. Cleavage should not be confused with crystal form. When a mineral exhibits cleavage, it will break into pieces that have the same configuration as the original sample does. By contrast, quartz crystals do not have cleavage, and if broken, would shatter into shapes that do not resemble each other or the original crystals. Minerals that do not exhibit cleavage are said to fracture when broken. Some break into pieces with smooth curved surfaces resembling broken glass. Others break into splinters or fibers, but most fracture irregularly.


1. The wordList “apparatus” in the passage is closest in meaning to
equipment
procedures
experiments
laboratories

2. According to paragraph 2, which of the following is a mistaken belief that people have about crystals?
Crystals always have a well-formed shape
Minerals are generally composed of crystals
The atoms of a crystal have an orderly arrangement
Crystals are always solid and inorganic


3. According to paragraph 3, how do different samples of the same mineral come to exhibit a variety of colors?
The samples have different crystalline structures.
The samples contain different varieties of quartz.
The samples differ in the impurities they contain.
The samples were formed in different exotic conditions.


4. Which of the following can be inferred about streak from paragraph 4?
When a sample of a mineral is rubbed on unglazed porcelain, the color of the streak is usually the same as the color of the sample.
In most cases, different samples of a mineral produce streaks that are all of the same color even though the samples themselves are of different colors.
When a streak is made, the impurities in the mineral are removed and the true color of the mineral is revealed.
Streak color is reliable for identifying minerals because a given mineral sample always yields the same color of streak each time it is rubbed.
5. It can be inferred from paragraph 6 that the mineral quartz
has no fixed degree of hardness
might scratch the surface of a diamond
is harder than calcite
has atoms that are weakly bonded to each other

6. The wordList “configuration” in the passage is closest in meaning to
effect
range
transformation
form

7. According to paragraph 7, which of the following is true of the cleavage of micas?
Micas are the only minerals to break along planes of weak bonding.
Micas exhibit poor cleavage because they tend to break unevenly.
Micas break in one direction, forming thin sheets with smooth surfaces.
Micas break in several directions, forming a number of angles and planes.

8. Why does the author warn "Cleavage should not be confused with crystal form”?
Because most people have the mistaken belief that the surfaces of crystals are planes of crystal cleavage.
Because the authors characterization of cleavage in terms of smooth planes and the angles between them could easily be mistaken for a description of crystal form.
To make the point that crystal form and cleavage are the same property only in the simplest cases of cleavage, such as mica.
To introduce a discussion of minerals the have cleavage but not crystal form.


9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage

Each mineral has an orderly arrangement of atoms (crystalline structure) and a definite chemical composition that give it a unique set of physical properties.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Minerals have a number of physical prosperities, some of which are useful for mineral identification.

Answer Choices
Most minerals show a characteristic crystal form that result from the way their atoms are arranged in the crystal structure,
For many minerals, the streak formed by a rubbing a mineral sample on unglazed porcelain is a more reliable guide for identification that the color of the sample.
Luster is a good guide to the identity of glassy and metallic minerals, but not those that have dull or earthy appearance.
The relative hardness of a mineral as determined by Mohs' scale is very useful for identifying a mineral sample.
Some minerals characteristically split along one or more smooth planes of cleavage while others typically fracture unevenly.
Quartz has a characteristic crystal form, but no cleavage and its color varies widely from sample to sample, all of which make it a typical mineral.


Conditions on Earth When Life Began

In the 1920s, Aleksandr Oparin, a Russian biochemist, proposed and developed the idea that life originated in the warm, watery environment of early Earth's surface, under an atmosphere mostly composed of methane The early seas were believed by Oparin to be rich in simple organic molecules, which reacted to form more complex molecules, eventually leading to proteins and life Then, almost 30 years after Oparin published his ideas, Stanley Miller demonstrated that amino acids, the building blocks of the proteins necessary for life, could form under conditions thought to prevail on early Earth Writer’s experiment was elegant. He passed electric discharges through a mixture of methane, hydrogen, ammonia, and steam, and when he analyzed the results, found that he had made amino acids. The discharges were a proxy for lightning, the gas mixture an educated guess about what the early atmosphere may have been like. Amino acids cannot replicate themselves and are not themselves alive. Nevertheless, this experiment has long been recognized as a landmark for understanding a process that must have been one of the important steps in the evolution of life on Earth, the natural synthesis of amino acids. However, it now seems likely that Miller's experiments may not be directly applicable to the events of tho early Archean (that is, early in the geologic eon that lasted from Earth's formation until about 2.5 billion years ago).

One of the problems hindering understanding of the origin of life is that environmental conditions on early Earth are not known with any certainty. It is possible to make only reasoned estimates. For example, for some fairly long period of time after formation, perhaps as much as several hundred million years, the surface must have been much hotter than it is today. Continued impacts of meteorites, large and small, would have added further heat energy, and in the earliest part of Earth history the larger impacting bodies may have broken through the cooling crust to expose underlying molten material. Large quantities of volcanic gases would have been released into the atmosphere as lavas erupted onto the surface, producing a greenhouse effect far more severe than anything likely to result from human activity. It is quite possible that the early atmosphere was many times as dense as today's, and that the seas and oceans were hot. Some have even suggested that because of the high atmospheric pressure, the oceans could have been hotter than the boiling point of water today However, life as we know it is quite sensitive to temperature, and no modern organisms are known to survive much above 100’C. It is unlikely that life became established until surface temperatures had decreased to this level, or lower.

Although we do not know tho precise composition of the early atmosphere, there has been enough progress made on this subject in recent years that it is possible to say with some certainty that the methane rich composition envisioned by Oparin, and the methane ammonia hydrogen mixture used by Miller in his experiments, are probably not very realistic. Based on studies of our closest neighbor planets, Mars and Venus, and also considering evidence from Earth's sedimentary rocks, it seems probable that Earth's early atmosphere was rich in carbon dioxide rather than methane. On both Mars and Venus, carbon dioxide is by far the most abundant gas in the atmosphere. On Earth it is a minor constituent. But there is an enormous amount of this compound buried in the sedimentary rocks of Earth's crust, enough so that, if it were all released, our atmosphere would be much more like those of our neighboring planets. How did carbon dioxide gas end up in the crust? The answer lies in what geologists refer to as the carbon cycle. Through a series of chemical reactions, carbon dioxide from the atmosphere finds itself, in dissolved form, in the oceans. In seawater it combines with calcium to precipitate as calcium carbonate, the main constituent of limestone. Over geologic time so much carbon dioxide from the atmosphere has been converted to limestone in this fashion that there than 100,000 times as much stored as limestone as there is in the atmosphere.

1 According to paragraph 1, why were Miller’s experimental results significant?
They explained the chemical composition of Earth during the early Archean
They provided evidence of the importance of electrical charges on early Earth
They showed how a key step in the evolution of life on Earth might have occurred
They demonstrated that amino acids could be created only in the presence of methane gas

2 According to paragraph 1, in setting up his experiment, Miller assumed each of the following to be true EXCEPT:
Earth’s early atmosphere probably included hydrogen and ammonia
Lightning probably occurred on early Earth.
Electrical discharges took place deep below early Earth’s surface
Water was present in the early Earth.

3 In paragraph 1, why does the author remark that "Amino acids cannot replicate themselves, and are not themselves alive”?
To suggest that other researchers were unable to reproduce Miller’s experimental results
To establish the fact that Miller’s experiment did not fully explain the origins of life
To point out an error in Miller's educated guess about what the early atmosphere was like
To support a statement about the importance of Miller’s experiment


4 The wordList 'Nevertheless" in the passage is closest in meaning to
In spite of this
It is obvious that
By comparison
Therefore


5 Select the TWO answer choices that, according to paragraph 2, describe effects that would have resulted from the impacts of meteorites on early Earth To receive credit, you must select TWO answers
Materials beneath the surface became molten
Seas and oceans became larger
Heat was added to Earth's surface
Volcanic gases were added to the atmosphere


6 Paragraph 2 supports which of the following ideas about life on Earth?
Life on Earth probably first became established below the surface
Life probably did not get established until several hundred million years after Earth’s formation
The earliest forms of life to become established were probably more sensitive to temperature than modern organisms are
Meteorites were probably responsible for bringing the first organisms to Earth


7 Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information
Because we still know little about the precise composition of Earth’s early atmosphere, we cannot evaluate Oparin’s theory or Miller's methane-ammonia-hydrogen experiment
Current knowledge suggests that Oparin and Miller were wrong about the composition of Earth’s early atmosphere.
We now know that it was very unrealistic of Oparin and Miller to think that they could identify the precise methane-rich mixture that made up the early atmosphere.
Recent progress in understanding Earth’s early history indicates that both Oparin and Miller clearly envisioned the precise atmospheric composition of early Earth


8 According to paragraph 3, what is the significance of the fact that the rocks of Earth’s crust now contain an enormous amount of calcium carbonate?
It explains why Oparin and Miller believed that Earth’s early atmosphere was methane rich.
It supports the idea that the atmosphere of early Earth was rich in carbon dioxide
It helps explain where the carbon dioxide in Earth’s atmosphere came from.
It provides evidence about the likely composition of the crust of early Earth.

9 Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
Oparin, however, had no experimental evidence for the processes he proposed.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square fill to add the sentence to the passage.


10 Directions An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

Building on Oparin’s ideas about how life began on Earth, Miller’s 1950s research showed that natural processes could have formed amino acids.
Answer Choices
It now seems likely that conditions on early Earth differed in important ways from those that Miller tried to simulate in his experiment.
Life could not have become established in the early Archean without the greenhouse effect produced by the volcanic gases that were released into the atmosphere
The amount of calcium carbonate in sedimentary rock suggests that the early atmosphere was probably rich in carbon dioxide rather than methane
Neither Oparin nor Miller considered the role that meteorites would have played in determining environmental conditions on early Earth.
Temperatures in the seas and oceans of early Earth were probably high and had to cool for life to become established
Like the atmospheres on Mars and Venus, Earth’s atmosphere today remains substantially unchanged from what it was in the early period after the planets formed


Grasses of the Prairie
Around 140 species of grasses naturally occur in the and Groat Plains grasslands of North America. One key to the prairie grasses' success is their ability to conserve water in a dry environment. Like most plants, grasses take in water through their roots and lose it as water vapor through tiny mouth-shaped valves, or stomata, in their leaves. The larger the surface of the leaf and the more stomata it bears, the greater the risk that the plant will lose too much moisture through evaporation and collapse. Grasses are protected from this trauma by having a reduced number of stomata and by the design of their leaves, which take the form of narrow blades What’s more, the surfaces of these reduced leaves are often modified--corrugated with ridges or covered in hair--so that the wind can't swoop across the surface and draw out moisture. The roughened surface holds a thin layer of humid air next to the leaf and thus helps to reduce the “evaporative demand," or drying power, of the atmosphere. Some grasses, including western wheatgrass, June grass, and blue grama, roll up the edges of their leaves during times of drought to help keep their tissues from drying out.

Why aren't the stomata kept tightly closed to seal moisture inside the leaf? The reason is that the stomata also supply plants with fresh air tor photosynthesis. If plants sealed their stomata this life-sustaining process would come to a halt for lack of carbon dioxide. But if the stomata are thrown wide open, the plants risk death due to the loss of moisture through their gaping valves.

Prairie grasses resolve this dilemma by strategic scheduling. In the fierce blaze of the midday sun, the stomata close so that water vapor is held in and carbon dioxide is kept out. In this state, the leaf can capture solar energy and store it in energy-rich molecules (a process that requires sunlight but not carbon dioxide) Then, in the cool of the evening, when the evaporative demand drops off, the stomata snap open, letting water vapor trickle out but also permitting carbon dioxide to flood into the leaf. By mobilizing the energy that was stockpiled earlier in the day the leaf uses this carbon dioxide to manufacture the sugars and other molecules that it needs for growth (a process that can be accomplished in total darkness) The result is that prairie grasses are partially nocturnal, they do most of their growing at night or in tho early hours of the morning

Prairie grasses also have another ingenious way of evading the demands of the sun Like many grassland creatures (prairie dogs, ground squirrels, cottontails, badgers, and so on), they take refuge underground. What we think of as “grass”--the aboveground leaves and stems--actually constitutes less than half of the organism. Between 60 and 80 percent of the plant, by weight, typically grows below ground. A 3-meter stand of big bluestem is anchored underground by a mass of coarse, fibrous roots that reaches as much as 36 meters into tho earth. Blue grama, for its part, seldom lifts its seed heads very far above the ground, but its network of fine, branching roots can sometimes probe the soil for water almost two meters down.

These extensive systems of roots push thirstily through the soil, intent on sucking up every available drop of water. But it the soil is very dry. as it is during periods of drought, the roots can't draw in enough moisture to keep pace with losses from the stomata. Grasses respond by transferring their most valuable resources (including sugars and proteins) from their leaves into their roots and especially, into their rhizomes (underground stems). Dead to the world above ground--withered and crisp--the plants live frugally below the surface, drawing on their cached supplies and biding their time until the weather improves. When the rains eventually return, as they inevitably do, the grasses explode into action, sending out fresh rhizomes, which in turn put out fresh leaves and roots, to produce a burgeoning network of tender growth. The amazingly resilient blue grama can revive from dormancy, become green, and grow on as little as five millimeters of rainfall.

1 In paragraph 1, why does the author mention ridges and hairs?
To argue that these characteristics are not found on larger leaf surfaces
To identify additional characteristics that help leaves conserve moisture
To indicate the possible locations of stomata
To provide examples of types of reduced leaves

2  What is the dilemma mentioned in the opening sentence of paragraph 3?
Prairie plants need to be close to each other, but the more plants there are in an area, the more difficult it is for each of them to get enough moisture for photosynthesis.
Plants open the stomata to let in energy from the sun, but this sometimes leads to a buildup of too much carbon dioxide.
When plants open their stomata, they lose water, but when they keep them closed, they cannot collect carbon dioxide for photosynthesis.
In strong heat and sunlight, plants need to close their stomata, but this uses so much energy that the plants cannot grow strong.

3 In paragraph 3, why does the author include the phrase "can be accomplished in total darkness”?
To explain how prairie grasses are able to grow without losing a great deal of moisture
To emphasize the damaging effects that sunlight can have on sugars and other molecules needed for growth
To point out how even a little bit of light can interfere with the plant’s ability to collect carbon dioxide
To show that nocturnal growth is stimulated only after prairie grasses have collected moisture from the evening air

4 According to paragraph 3, prairie grasses do each of the following during the night EXCEPT
collect and store energy
manufacture sugars
open the stomata
gather carbon dioxide

5 According to paragraph 4, why do prairie dogs, ground squirrels, and other grassland creatures burrow underground?
To find grass roots to eat
To hide from predators
To look for water
To avoid the sun

6 Paragraph 5 suggests that when there is plenty of water available in the soil, grasses lose many of their rhizomes
store sugars and proteins in their leaves
use as little energy as possible
take in moisture mostly through the stomata

7 Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
Until the weather improves, the plant must grow many new leaves to replace those that have died above the surface.
When the weather changes suddenly, the parts of the plants that are not protected by the ground may wither and die from the shock.
The plants still surviving underground will, when the weather improves, take the place of other plants that have died.
Until the weather improves, plants that appear lifeless survive underground by using their stored supplies economically.

8 The wordList”resilient”in the passage is closest in meaning to
quick to recover
brightly colored
fast growing
complex

9 Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Leaf design, then, is valuable in moisture retention, but it is not the only effective strategy.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10 Directions An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

Grasses that live in the arid conditions of the prairie must develop ways to grow and produce energy while conserving moisture..
Answer Choices
Prairie grasses have developed broad, smooth leaves with plentiful stomata so that they are able to collect enough carbon dioxide to live in arid climates.
Prairie grasses close their stomata during the day to prevent the loss of moisture and open them at night to collect carbon dioxide
Extensive underground root and stem systems allow prairie grasses to draw moisture from the soil and to store valuable resources away from the sun.
Prairie grasses’ abundant seed heads allow them to take advantage of the windstorms that commonly sweep across the prairie, carrying their seeds to more-favorable locations.
Prairie grasses depend on the tunneling abilities of other grassland creatures to loosen the soil and create room for the grasses?massive underground root and stem systems
Prairie grasses conserve energy during periods of drought by entering a period of dormancy and grow quickly when rainfall becomes available again.

Task1:
Imagine that you must decide between two homes to live in. One place is very large and is brand new, but it is very far from your place of work or university. The second place is very small and is very old, but you would be able to get to work or university in less than five minutes. Which place would you prefer to live in? Explain why.


Task2:
Reading Time: 45 seconds
Cafeteria for Math Building
Students who are majoring in math spend a lot of time in the math building. I think it would be more convenient for math students if the university turned the large empty room on the first floor of the math building into a small cafeteria. Having a cafeteria in the math building would give students a place where they could get something to eat in between classes. Additionally, the university could add a number of electrical outlets to the room so students could recharge their laptops there.
Sincerely,
Justin Ruben

The letter writer points out a problem with the math building and suggests an improvement. Briefly describe the improvement and explain the reasons why the woman agrees or disagrees with the letter writer’s suggestion.
Preparation Time:  30 Seconds
Response Time:    60 Seconds


Task3:
Reading Time: 50 seconds
Diffusion Effect in Health Studies
When health education experts want to test the effectiveness of a program designed to improve a particular health condition, they often do a study with two groups of people. One group participates in the program, while the other does not, and the researchers compare the two groups to see if the program was effective in improving health. However, if the groups come into contact during the study, a diffusion effect may occur. Members of the group participating in the program may mistakenly share information about it with members of the other group. This often leads to the results of the study being useless.

Explain how the example from the lecture illustrates the concept of a diffusion effect.
Preparation Time:  30 Seconds
Response Time:    60 Seconds


Task4:
Using points and examples from the lecture, explain two adaptations that allow animals to run at high speeds.
Preparation Time:  20 Seconds
Response Time:    60 Seconds

Reading material

The golden frog is a small, bright-yellow amphibian that lives in and around mountain streams in Panama. The species s severely endangered because of a fungus that infects the frog through its skin and inhibits the frog’s critical life functions, such as breathing. Conservationists have proposed a few solutions to the golden frog's fungus problem.

Bacterial Protection
First, scientists have identified a natural enemy of the fungus a type of bacterium. This bacterium produces a chemical that kills fungal cells. Scientists think that they may be able to introduce colonies of this bacterium to the skin of golden frogs. The bacterial colonies would then protect the frogs against the fungus infection.
Breeding Frogs in Captivity
Second, researchers are considering the possibility of breeding golden frogs in captivity and then releasing them in the wild to replenish wild populations. The golden frog can develop disease-free in captivity, where it is isolated from the fungus. When golden frogs bred in captivity are released in habitat where wild golden frogs have died out, the frogs bred in captivity will give rise to a healthy, fungus-free population.
A Natural Defense
Third, it is possible that golden frogs will overcome the threat posed by the fungus without human intervention. Some golden frogs have what seems to be a natural defense against the fungus. When infected, they increase their body temperature, which slows down the growth of the fungus If this ability to resist the fungal infection spreads among the golden frog population as a whole, the frog population is likely to overcome the crisis and start increasing again.

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
Providing Internet access is just as important as other services, such as building roads, so government should offer Internet access to all of their citizens at no cost.


Section1
Conversation 1
1. Why does the student meet with the man?
To resolve a problem with her room
To find out more about university storage policies
To make arrangements to complete her move
To discuss her plans for next semester

2. What does the man insist that the student must do?
Thoroughly clean her apartment
Drop off her keys before morning
Pick up her boxes before Thursday
Make next year’s housing request early

3. Why will the student not need campus housing next semester?
She will be working temporarily in another town
She will graduate before the next semester starts
she plans to live in an apartment off campus
She plans to transfer to a different university

4. What does the man imply when he says this
He is willing lo help the student
He needs more information from the student
Rules have to be followed
Rules are sometimes confusing


Lecture 1
5. What is the lecture mainly about?
The length of time required to produce sedimentary rocks
The role of climate conditions in the creation of sedimentary rocks
Some processes that produced a specific group of rock formations
Some unique geologic features found in canyons in the United States

6. According to the professor, what is one characteristic that frost wedging and runoff share?
Neither occurs in a desert
Nether is a frequent event
Both are weathering processes
Both are seasonal phenomena

7. Why does the professor show a picture of a slot canyon?
To give students a sense of the size of a typical slot canyon
To show students on of ha places they will visit on the field trip
To state how many sediment layers are visible in a typical sot canyon
To show how much slot canyons can vary based on local climate conditions

8. What is the professor’s attitude toward students exploring Bryce Canyon on their own?
He worries that students may not know to take appropriate precautions if they go by themselves
He suspects that many students will not go on her own f such a trip requires them to get up early
He hopes that he class field trip will motivate students to visit Bryce Canyon on their own
He believes that students learn more from individual exploration than they do from being in a group

9. How is a hoodoo formed?
Runoff produces large gravel deposits
Air pollution leads to a buildup of limestone
The roof of a rock window collapses
A flash flood washes away the base of a rock wall


10. According to the professor what two actors explain why a hoodoo does not have a smooth shape
Click on 2 answers
The presence of acid in rainwater
The temperature swings between the summer and the winter seasons
The composition of the hoodoo's sedimentary layers
The location of the cracks created by frost wedging


Section2
Conversation 2
1. Why does the student go to see the professor?
She was confused by his comments about her paper.
She wants his help in understanding Herbert Spencer’s theories
She thinks he misunderstood some claims she made in her paper
She wants to change the topic of her paper

2. Why did the student decide to write her paper on Norbert Spencer?
Because she has strong views about his theories
Because she knew more about him than about other sociologists
Because she chose name from a list of sociologists
Because she knew it would e easy to gather information on him

3. How does the professor feel about the student’s assertion that she tried to be objective?
He believes she has actually expressed her own biases
He believes she has not tried hard enough to be objective
He thinks she has not presented Spencer s ideas accurately
thinks she does not fully understand the concept of objectivity

4. According to the professor what are the advantages of adding historical perspective?
Click on 2 answers
It will help the student understand Spencer's theories
It will help the student present her own viewpoint
It will help the student explain Spencer's ideas.
It will help the student understand the sources of Spencer s ideas

5. Why does the professor say this
He is now ready for the student to answer the questions
He does not remember what questions he asked the student
He wants the student to consider how the questions are relevant
He suspects that the student has forgotten the questions


Lecture 2
6. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
To compare two ancient civilizations
To suggest topics for the students next research paper
To show the importance of hearing an ancient text read aloud
To explain how linguists determine the correct pronunciation of ancient languages

7 According to the professor what have previous classes concentrated on?
Recent discoveries about Sumerian agriculture
The influence of Sumerian culture on ancient Egypt
The written records of the ancient Akkadians
Akkadian buildings that have been preserved

8. Why does the professor say that the recording of the farming advice was NOT a good example?
She does not find the farming advice interesting
The words on the tape were not pronounced accurately
The farming advice is not typical of Akkadian agricultural techniques
A literary example would be more appropriate than an agricultural example

9. Why does the professor mention the fact that few Akkadians knew how to read or write?
To emphasize the importance of the oral tradition in ancient literature
To emphasize the necessity for scribes in Akkadian society
To explain why linguists are not sure what Akkadian poetry sounded like
To explain why few examples of Akkadian literature exist today

10. Why does the professor read an excerpt from the epic of Gilgamesh to the class?
To show that modern literature is meant to be read aloud
To show the effect of repeated words on a listener
To compare a historical character to a mythical character
To compare wordList translations of the same myth

11. Why does the student say this
To request that the professor teach the class an Akkadian phrase
To point out that there are terms in modern languages that cannot be translated into ancient languages
To question the practical purpose of listening to ancient texts
To explain why he would find it difficult to learn Akkadian


Lecture 3
12. What is the lecture mainly about?
The development of the lens of the human eye
The function of different types of cells in the human eye
Features of cells that enable cells to repair themselves
Characteristics of the lens of the human eye

13. Why does the professor compare the lens of the human eye to jellyfish?
To point out that transparent tissue has many possible benefits
To emphasize the uniqueness of the lens
To explain why the jellyfish is considered such a unique organism
To illustrate that transparency is a common feature in animals

14. The professor mentions several features of the lens that contribute to its transparency. Indicate below for each phrase whether it is a feature that contributes to the transparency of the lens
Click in the correct boxes
Yes                     No
Precisely aligned cells
Loosely connected cells
Lack of blood vessels
Clear cell nuclei
Only one type of cell

15. What does the professor imply about cells that do not contain organelles?
They have thick walls
They are shaped like crystals
They cannot repair themselves
They do not have unique functions

16. Why does the professor mention French painter Claude Monet?
To point out that the colors he used are true to nature
To describe the consequences of lens discoloration
To illustrate the relationship between wavelength and color
To explain that artists often paint from memory

17. Why does the professor say this
To find out if all the students realize that the lens lacks blood vessels
To find out if the students have additional questions
To suggest that there is another answer to her question
To convey surprise that only one student responded to her question

TPO62-1  Plant Adaptations to Cool Environments
  There are many interesting adaptations that allow plants to survive in cool environments. One obvious strategy is dormancy (a suspension of activity) during the cold season. Most of the common trees in the forests of northeastern North America, western Europe, and eastern Asia, such as the maples, oaks, beech, birches, and ashes, are deciduous trees that lose their frost-sensitive leaves during the cold winter season. In most of these trees, the leaves suffer damage at temperatures of freezing or just below. The new leaves arise in the spring from winter buds that can remain viable at colder temperatures.
   Most of the needle-leaved conifers of the northern and alpine forests, such as pines, spruces, and firs, do not lose their leaves during the winter. How do such evergreen plants escape intracellular freezing (freezing within cells) and tissue destruction when temperatures may drop to-40c or colder? In these plants, the onset of cool temperatures causes physiological changes that allow plant tissue to either avoid freezing or restrict freezing to extracellular areas ( those outside of cells). For plants to avoid freezing, they must chemically alter their liquids into a form that is analogous to antifreeze in automobiles. The liquids in these plants can be cooled far below 0℃ and will not freeze. This process is called supercooling and is achieved by the metabolic synthesis of sugars and other molecules which when in solution in the plants tissue, lower the temperature for ice formation to far below 0°C. Supercooling seems to be the prevalent mechanism of frost resistance in herbs. For woody plants supercooling is augmented by declines of cellular water content, greater cellular accommodation to deformation, and processes that allow water to accumulate and freeze in extracellular spaces. The loss of water from the cells to extracellular areas increases the solute content (the quantity of dissolved substances ) of the remaining cell water, making it more resistant to freezing. The cell walls can accommodate the deformations caused by water freezing on the exterior of the cell For northern and alpine evergreens such as pines and spruces both supercooling and extracellular ice formation play a part in allowing the plants to withstand extremely cold temperatures. One interesting facet of these physiological adaptations to freezing is that most of these plants will still be damaged by cold temperatures if they do not have a period of cooling in which to adjust to the onset of winter. This process of physiological preparation for the onset of winter cold is called frost hardening.
   Some members of the cactus family appear to resist freezing during cool nights by radiating stored during the day in their thick, moist tissue. The greater the mass of the cactus, the more heat it can store and the less prone it will be to freezing damage during the night How is it then that these cacti can survive cold temperatures when they are young and small? The giant saguaro cactus is perhaps the best-known symbol of the southwestern desert of North America. In the popular lore of North America, the distinctive shape of the multi-stemmed saguaro is a universally recognized icon that
is used to represent deserts in movies, television, and comics. Yet, this distinctive and widely recognized plant is actually found only in the Sonoran Desert of California, Arizona, and adjacent Mexico. The saguaro cactus is damaged or killed if exposed to prolonged freezing temperatures. Desert climates in the northern Sonoran Desert are typified by warm days but sometimes experience nighttime temperatures that are below freezing in the winter. Young saguaros that survive are found sheltered beneath more frost-tolerant desert shrubs The cover of these shrubs acts as a thermal blanket, capturing heat radiated from the ground and keeping the microclimate of the small saguaro warm at night. As the cactus grows, it eventually rises above the cover of the protective shrub. The radiation of heat from the stalk of the large mature cactus prevents freezing. This strategy works up to a point. The range of the saguaro is restricted to areas that do not experience more than about 12 to 24 continuous hours of air temperatures below 0°C. It appears that after 24 hours of freezing air temperatures, not enough heat reserve is left in the saguaro to keep the tissue from freezing.

1.According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of trees like maples and oaks
They have leaves that are resistant to frost
They are unable to survive if their leaves are damaged
They have buds that do not produce new leaves until temperatures rise
They can delay the production of buds until the arrival of spring
2. Why does the author ask the question, “How do such evergreen plants escape intracellular freezing (freezing within cells) and tissue destruction when temperatures may drop to-40c or colder?” in the passage?
To introduce an account of the ways evergreen plants protect themselves from the
To suggest that losing their leaves would allow evergreens to escape damage from the cold
To point out that scientists do not fully understand how evergreens survive cold temperatures
To emphasize that studying evergreens may hold the key to understanding how all forest plants survive cold temperatures

3. The author mentions “antifreeze in automobiles” in the passage in order to
Emphasize the difficulty trees such as conifers have in surviving
Point out that freezing temperatures can seriously damage tree tissue
Illustrate a chemical process in plants that prevents them from freezing
Explain how conifers are able to raise the temperature in their tissue

4. According to paragraph 3, why does the mass of a cactus influence its ability to resist freezing?
Larger cacti tend to have less water in them, making freezing less likely
Larger cacti can store more heat in their tissues and thus stay warmer at night
Cacti with more mass tend to have deeper roots that take longer to freeze
Cacti with more mass exchange more moisture with the air, which protects them from the cold

5.	The wordList “prolonged” in the passage is closest in meaning to
unexpected
extreme
frequent
extended

6.	Paragraph 3 supports which of the following claims about the ability of saguaro cacti to survive freezing temperatures?
Saguaro cacti, whether large or small, have no resistance to freezing because they face freezing temperatures
Saguaro cacti living in the Sonoran Desert are less likely to die from freezing than those in other areas of the North American southwest
In different ways, both young and mature saguaro cacti are protected during a freezing night
Mature saguaro cacti can survive in areas that are too cold for the frost tolerant shrubs that shelter young saguaro cacti


7.	 It can be inferred from paragraph 3 that saguaros are limited to areas in which
young cacti can grow taller than the shrubs surrounding them
temperatures remain below freezing for periods that do not exceed 24 hours
daytime temperatures are sufficiently high to enable cacti to store a lot of heat
there is enough heat radiated from the ground to protect cacti from freezing air temperatures


8.	 All of the following questions are answered in the passage EXCEPT
How does supercooling work to prevent liquids in plants from freezing?
Why does the loss of water from plant cells and the collection of water in extracellular protect the water inside the cells from freezing
How do members of the cactus family limit heat radiation during daylight hours?
How do frost-tolerant shrubs help protect young saguaro cacti from being damaged by extreme nighttime winter temperatures?

9.	 Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
 Other plants, however, possess additional defenses against freezing temperatures.
Where would the sentence best fit?

10.	Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Several adaptations allow plants to survive in cool environments.
Answer Choices
Deciduous trees survive in cold weather by shedding their leaves, but conifers have developed other physiological adaptations to protect themselves from damage by freezing temperatures.
Maples, oaks, and birches are among the deciduous trees that have successfully adapted to living in areas that have cold winter weather.
Evergreens survive freezing temperatures by means of supercooling and by allowing water from the cells to collect and freeze in spaces outside the cells.
Saguaro cacti and other plants with thick, moist tissues have developed defenses against cold temperatures that are considerably more effective than supercooling.
Although the saguaro cactus Is one of the most widely recognized desert plants in North America, its range is actually limited to a relatively small.
While young saguaro cacti benefit from the shelter of other plants, mature cacti use the heat they store in their tissue during the day to survive nighttime freezing temperatures


The Use of Jade and Bronze in China

Jade and bronze were chosen early in Chinas history as the materials for society's most precious objects. The main reason for this is very straightforward. Both materials are beautiful to the eye and, in the case of jade, also to the touch. Jade is a dense stone that can be ground to smooth, soft surfaces and glows in subtle greens, grays, and browns. Bronze, an alloy of tin and copper, is a light, bright gold color when polished.

Jade was employed (c. 4500 B.C.) for exceptionally elegant versions of utilitarian stone tools, bronze was the choice (C. 1650 B. C.) for the highest-quality cooking pots. Made in jade, the tools were not for daily use but for displays of status and power, and the bronze cooking pots were not for ordinary meals but were reserved for offerings of food and wine to ancestors. Jade and bronze were thus used for special ritual or ceremonial versions of standard everyday items

The materials themselves were scarcer and required more labor to work than ordinary stone and ceramic. That this was the case must have been as clear in the past as it is today and must have marked the objects as in some way exceptional. Not only the materials but also the ways in which they were worked demonstrated their exalted functions. Jade scepters (ceremonial objects of various shapes that were carried by influential people as symbols of authority)were ground more thinly than the stone tools they copied, such as axes or reaping knives. Had they been used to chop down a tree, they would have broken. Bronze cooking pots were made in intricate forms with extra knobs and handles and dense decoration, all of which would have been impracticable on everyday ceramics

There would be no point in using these scarce and labor-intensive materials in place of common ones if they could not be immediately recognized as outstanding. Craftsmanship was therefore directed toward exploiting and displaying the particular qualities of jade and bronze that make them recognizably different from ordinary stone and ceramic. These qualities had to be made visually noticeable. Other qualities, such as weight or texture, can only be appreciated by holding the object and fewer people will have the opportunity to pick it up and feel its features with their hands than will be able to glance at it quickly.

Visual distinctions deployed to separate the ceremonial from the everyday can also be used to refer to smaller differences in the ranking of ritual items, separating those owned by kings from those owned by nobles. Such differences can be in size or mass—one piece being larger or thicker than another—or in skill, with one being better crafted than another. We make such judgments when looking at ancient objects today, and it seems likely that some sort of similar assessment was made at the time.

Two hierarchies, both visible to the eye, were thus achieved. First and most fundamental was a hierarchy of function, the ritual object standing above the everyday object. Second was the hierarchy within each category, with the more elaborately worked and often larger object higher up the scale. The rich and powerful owned the jade scepters and bronze vessels. What is more, these scepters and vessels not only expressed or reflected the status of their owners but they also probably reinforced it. In this way, Jades and bronzes became bound up with the religious and political structures of the early Chinese state, and they remained so linked up to the twentieth century.

It is therefore not surprising that at times when rulers and their courts wished to assert their authority, they commissioned large numbers of conspicuous bronzes. Further, when they wished to distract attention from weaknesses in society，they emphasized their power even more by increasing expenditure on ritual objects. Thus changes in the aesthetic qualities of jades and bronzes can inform us about the society that produced them.

Later generations of Chinese scholars of the Song Dynasty (AD 960-1279) quickly recognized the link between the bronzes and jades and political power. In their search for political legitimacy, they collected and studied ancient artifacts, pursuits that in themselves reinforced the high status of jade and bronze in society. From the idea that political power resided in ancient objects, including calligraphy and painting, grew the first art collections.

Which of the following can be inferred from paragraph 1 about bronze?
It is a heavier type of material than jade
It is less pleasing to the touch than jade
It was preferred over jade early in Chinas history
It was a more common material than Jade
2. According to paragraph 2, objects made from jade and bronze were
special versions of ordinary objects
passed down from ancestors through many generations
used for everyday purposes only by the most powerful membeis of society
more widely used than objects made from ordinary materials

3. Why does the author include the comment about jade scepters that" Had they been used to chop down a tree, they would have broken"?
To point out the poor quality of early Chinese tool
To explain why so few unbroken jade scepters have been found
To illustrate that jade scepters were not designed for practical purposes
To explain why Jade tools were eventually replaced by stone tools in early China

4. The wordList “exploiting” in the passage is closest in meaning to
paying attention to
discovering
taking advantage of
appreciating

5. According to paragraph 4, the qualities of jade and bronze that Chinese craftsmanship emphasized were
qualities that could not be immediately recognized as outstanding but required good taste to appreciate
qualities that could not be fully appreciated without touching an object in addition to looking at it
qualities such as texture or weight that could only be appreciated by handling an object
qualities that could be immediately recognized by just looking at an object

6. Paragraphs 5 and 6 support all of the following statements about jade scepters and bronze vessels EXCEPT
Jade and bronze objects owned by people of higher status were generally better crafted than those owned by people of Lesser status
Jade and bronze objects owned by nobles were generally thicker and larger in size than the finer ones owned by kings
Jade and bronze objects probably not only reflected the social status of their owners but also confirmed and strengthened it
Jade and bronze objects played a role in the religious and political structures of China from early on up to the twentieth century.
7. According to paragraph 7, Chinese rulers spent more on bronze and jade objects at times when
there was economic prosperity
there were long periods of uninterrupted peace
the rulers needed to turn people’s attention away from problems in society
the rulers did not need to emphasize their power and authority over their subjects

8. It can be inferred from the passage that jade and bronze objects in China were
owned only by people of high social status
difficult to distinguish from one another in value
produced in large numbers by scholars of the Song Dynasty
thought to be of lesser status than works of calligraphy and painting

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage

Their prompt realization of this connection helped to strengthen their position as the official ruling class.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square I to add the sentence to the passage

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in summary because the express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.
Drag your answer choices to the spaces where they belong. To remove an answer choice, click on it. To review the passage, click VIEW TEXT

The most valued objects in ancient China were made from jade and bronze.
Answer Choices:

A.	Although modeled after everyday tools and vessels, jade and bronze objects were designed for ceremonial and decorative purposes

B.	Visually noticeable qualities made jade and bronze objects recognizably different in value from everyday objects as well as from each other.

C.	As jade and bronze increased in popularity, craftsperson who worked these labor-intensive materials became powerful members of ancient Chinese society.

D.	Cooking pots made from bronze were easy to distinguish from everyday ceramic pots because of obvious differences in texture and weight.

E.	Because the value of jade and bronze objects was linked with social status, wealth, and power, changes in these objects styles offer insight into the society that produced them.

F.	The connection between bronze and jade objects and political power was not recognized until after the scholars of the Song Dynasty had started assembling the first art collections.


Is Perceptual Development an Innate or Socially Acquired Process?

Most developmental scientists now agree that both nature(genetics)and nurture (environment) essential for the normal development of perception. However, there is still much dispute about the are extent to which either nature or nurture is the more important factor. Points of view on this issue are more than just philosophical musings: they affect the kinds of experiments that are undertaken. I argue here that classifying particular aspects of perceptual development as either innate or learned presents us with an overly passive view in which either genes or environment imposes structure on the developing brain. In contrast, I suggest that perceptual development is better characterized as an activity-dependent process involving complex and subtle interactions at many levels.

To begin to Illustrate my point, let’s consider some recent neurobiological work on the prenatal(before-birth)development of the brain in rodents. Neurons are Specialized cells that transmit impulses or messages to other neurons, glands, and muscles. The neurons studied in these experiments are those involved in binocular vision. Experiments show that the prenatal tuning (training)of these neurons arises through their response to internally generated waves of electrical activity. In other words, the response properties of these visual neurons are shaped by a "virtual environment” generated by cells elsewhere in the brain and eye. Although the term innate can be stretched to cover this example of development, we could equally well describe this process as the cells learning from the input provided. Further, after birth the same neurons continue to be tuned in the same way, except that now their input also reflects the structure of the world outside. When we examine development in detail, it becomes harder to argue, as some theorists do, that “innate knowledge” is fundamentally different from learning.

Another example of the role of activity-dependent processes in perceptual development comes from the ability to detect and recognize faces. Because regions of the human brain are specialized for processing faces, some researchers have argued that this ability is innate. However, experiments with infants reveal a more complex story. The tendency for newborns to look more toward faces turns out to be based on a very primitive, reflex like system that is triggered by a stimulus as simple as three high-contrast blobs in the approximate locations of the eyes and mouth. This simple bias is sufficient to ensure that newborns look much more at faces than at other objects and patterns over the first weeks of life. One consequence of this is that developing circuits on the visual recognition pathway of the brain get more input related to faces and thus are shaped by experience with this special type of visual stimulus. We can now study this process by using new brain-imaging methods. Such studies have shown that the brains of young infants show less localized and less-specialized processing of faces than do the brains of adults. It is not until they are one year old that infants show the same patterns of brain specialization for processing faces as do adults, by which time they have had as much as a thousand hours of exposure to human faces.

Another example comes from the study of infant’s eye movements to visual targets. Although newborns are capable of some primitive reflexive eye movements, only much later in the first year can they make most of the kinds of complex and accurate eye the very limited ability present in newborns is just sufficient to allow them to practice and develop new brain circuits for the more complex integration of visual and motor information necessary for adult eye movements. Once again, it appears that infants actively contribute to their own subsequent development.

These considerations should make us skeptical about the many claims that are made for innate perceptual abilities based on experiments with babies of four months and older. In fact, when the same experiments were done with younger infants, quite different results have often been obtained suggesting dramatic changes in perceptual abilities over the first few weeks and months after birth.

Infants are not passively shaped by either their genes or their environment. Rather, perceptual development is an activity dependent process in which, during postnatal life, the infant plays an active role in generating the experience it needs for subsequent development.

1.The wordList "overly "in the passage is closest in meaning to
unlikely
automatically
apparently
excessively

2. According to paragraph 2, how does the tuning of visual neurons in rodents change after birth?
Tuning now occurs in response to internally generated electrical activity.
Tuning now occurs in response to a “virtual environment” generated by cells in the brain and eye
Tuning now becomes innate because the virtual environment disappears.
Tuning now includes responses to outside stimuli

3. According to paragraph 3, why have some people argued that processing faces is innate?
Babies are attracted to patterns that resemble the human face
Babies have a primitive reflex like reaction to faces
Some parts of the brain are developed specifically to the recognition of faces
Studies show that the brains of infants are less specialized than those of adults.

4. In paragraph 3, why does the author discuss baby’s recognition of faces
To contrast the development of newborns and rodents in terms of the roles of nature and those nurture
To provide additional evidence for the argument that perceptual development is dependent genera upon activity
to provide additional support for the idea that nature influences development more than nurture
To describe how regions of the human brain become specialized during development

5. The wordList "integration" in the passage is closest in meaning to
union
distinction
understanding
achievement

6. What example discussed in the passage leads to the conclusion it appears that infants actively contribute to their own subsequent development?
Babes achieve more complex eye movements through repeated practice
Babies learn some eye movements by imitating the eye movements they see in adults.
Focusing on visual targets may make it more difficult for babies to develop adult eye movements
Infants are motivated to retain some primitive reflexive eye movements
7.Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information
Different experiments on younger children often yield similar results about perceptual ability
Varying the visual stimuli in the same experiment has been shown to change the perceptual ability of younger children
The results of experiments on perceptual ability suggest younger infants change less
Experiments show that perceptual ability changes significantly in the weeks and months after birth

8. The wordList “subsequent” in the passage is closest in meaning to
later
permanent
basic
independent

9. Look at the four squares I that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage
Since the" virtual environment shapes the neurons, binocular vision cannot be considered to be purely innate.
Where would the sentence best fit?

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in summary because the express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage.

Most developmental scientists still disagree about the relative importance of nature and nurture in perceptual development.
Answer Choices:

A.	Recent studies support the idea that the rate of perceptual development depends upon innate abilities.
B.	The tuning of neurons is most consistently effective within a” virtual environment”.
C.	There is evidence that human infants take active roles in the developmental process of acquiring mature and complex perceptual abilities.
D.	The author believes that explaining perceptual development as either innate or learned is problematic.
E.	Experiments with rodents can lead to an interpretation that neurons are “learning” even before birth.
F.	New brain-imaging techniques suggest that newborns share the same specialized ability for processing faces as adults do.


Question 1 of 4
Some people think that modern technology has made people’s lives simpler. Others believe it has made people’s lives more complicated. Which point of view do you agree with? Explain why.
Preparation Time: 15 Seconds
Response Time: 45 Seconds


Question 2 of 4
Reading Time: 50 seconds
New Parking Lot Location
I was very pleased to read about the university’s plans to build a new parking lot to accommodate the growing number of student cars on campus. Since the location for the new lot has not yet been determined, I would like to suggest that Sanders Field be used. Sanders Field has not been used for sports events since the new stadium was built two years ago. Right now, it is wasted space, so it would be an ideal area to turn into something useful like a parking lot. Students who live in the dorms really need a place to park their cars. Students living off campus could really use the extra parking, too.
Sincerely
Jason Hill

The woman disagrees with the parking lot proposal presented in the university paper. Explain the proposal and the reasons the woman gives for opposing it.
Preparation Time: 30 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds


Question 3 of 4
Reading Time 50 seconds
Illusion of Transparency
When we experience strong emotions, we often believe, falsely, that other people can detect those emotions, even if we try to hide them. This false belief, that others can “see through us” and know even our innermost feelings that we try to hide, is called the illusion of transparency. Why are we susceptible to such an illusion? Why do we sometimes believe that our feelings are more obvious to others than they really are? Research suggests that the reason is this: when our emotions are very strong, we focus on them very intently and are extremely aware of them. This heightened awareness of our own feelings causes us to assume that they must be obvious to others as well.

Explain how the professor’s experience at the dinner party illustrates the illusion of transparency.
Preparation Time: 30 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds


Question 4 of 4
Using the examples of the horned frog and the anole lizard, explain the differences between the two types of protective resemblance discussed by the professor.
Preparation Time: 20 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds

TPO 62 Task1-Integrated Writing

Throughout the world's oceans, hard structures such as natural reefs provide ideal marine habitats. Reefs provide hard surfaces to which plants, coral, and sponges can attach, and thereby provide food and shelter for many types of fish. Recently, workers in the fishing industry have tried to increase the amount of suitable habitat for fish by constructing artificial reefs from old metal objects and industrial materials and placing them in coastal waters Artificial reefs have several benefits.

Many fishers believe that by giving fish more places to gather and reproduce, artificial reefs have increased the populations of some species of fish. For example, a report from one extensive artificial reef program in the Gulf of Mexico shows that the number of red snapper fish harvested in the area has increased by as much as ten times compared with harvests a century ago. The increases in the number of fish caught began after the start of the artificial reef program.

Artificial reefs can also improve the economic competitiveness of small-scale fishers. This is possible because small-scale fishers are able to create their own private artificial reefs in secret locations only they know. Currently, small-scale fishers struggle to compete with larger corporations because fishing grounds are limited in number and most are known to everyone. Creating fishing areas known only to the fishers who make them will help independent fishers support themselves and their local communities

Finally, artificial reefs are a good way to recycle materials no longer needed for other purposes. Artificial reefs can be made from old cars and other objects that are otherwise difficult to dispose of. Once these materials have been cleaned to ensure that no harmful chemicals remain, they can be placed in the ocean to serve as reefs for marine life. Artificial reefs thus provide a relatively inexpensive, environmentally friendly way to reuse materials

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
After completing high school, students should take at least a year off to work or travel before they begin studying at a university.

Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer

1.	What is the conversation mainly about?
A Reasons that philosophical concepts are difficult to define
B The intended purpose of the discussion groups
C The student's difficulties in trying to understand some information
D The relevance of philosophy to the student’s long-term goals

2. How does the student feel about the professor’s explanation of simulations?
A He finds it amusing and interesting
B He feels even more confused than before
C He is grateful for the clarification
D He realizes that he already understands the general concept

3. Who influenced the student to sign up for the philosophy course?
A The philosophy professor
B A law librarian
C graduate assistant
D An academic adviser

4. What does the professor imply that she should have done differently in the first class?
A She should have stressed the practical importance of philosophy
B She should have discussed the readings for the course in greater detail
C She should not have included so much material in the lecture
D She should not have frightened the students by mentioning a challenging assignment

5. What does the professor imply will make the student feel more comfortable with the course in the future? Click on 2 answers
A She will explain postmodernism in much more detail.
B The class will read works by writers whose ideas she expects will interest the student
C The student will have opportunities to talk about the course material in a small group.
D The student will be able to make use of the law library

L1
6. What is the lecture mainly about?
A The reasons why Olmsted was selected to design Central Park
B The impact that Olmsted's designs had on the growth of cities
C Ways that Olmsted's design for Central Park influenced the design of Riverside, Illinois
D Olmsted's design goals as revealed in two of his projects

7. What does the professor imply about the increase in the population of urban areas in the middle of the nineteenth century?                                                                                                                                                                                   A It was one of the reasons that Central Park was created
B It forced Olmsted to build more roads in Central Park than he had originally planned
C Olmsted viewed the increase in population as a positive trend                                                                                                                                                            D It caused difficulty in the design and creation of city parks

8. What is one of the features of Olmsted design of Central Park that the professor particularly admires?
A The use of trees as boundaries between recreational and non-recreational areas
B The emphasis of naturally occurring contrasts
C The quality often materials used for streets and buildings
D The wide variety of styles used for its tunnels

9. What design feature did Olmsted incorporate into both Central Park and the town of Riverside, Illinois?
A The removal of large rocks that obstructed views
B Forest areas that were left undisturbed
C Streets at lower levels than other ground areas
D The expansion of naturally occurring ponds

10. What does the professor say about the town of Riverside, Illinois today
A It has stayed true to Olmsted original design
B It is regarded as Olmsted s most successful project
C It has even more parkland than Olmsted had created

11. What can be inferred about the woman when she says this
A She believes there is more than one correct answer to the professor's question.
B She realizes she is repeating a point the professor made earlier
C She recognizes that she is not giving a correct answer
D She thinks the answer to the professor's question is obvious


L2
12. What is the main purpose of the lecture?
A present new information about star formation
B To explain what happens when stars collide
C To analyze the role of supernovae in galactic collisions
D To propose a new theory about supernova explosions

13. What do collide galaxies and a supernova have in common? Click on 2 answers.
A Both events take place over billions of years.
B Both events result in the death of some stars.
C Both events create clouds of excited hydrogen gas                                                                                       D Both events produce a similar type of radiation.

14. Why are astronomers uncertain as to which of two unnamed galaxies collided with the Cartwheel Galaxy?
A Both galaxies are at an equal distance from the Cartwheel Galaxy
B Each shows evidence typical of a galactic collision
C Neither one has a bright ring showing the presence of new stars
D Computer simulations show that either one is a possibility

15: Why are astronomers uncertain as to which of two unnamed galaxies collided with the Cartwheel Galaxy?
A Each shows evidence typical of a galactic collision.
B Computer simulations show that either one is a possibility.
C Neither one has a bright ring showing the presence of new stars.
D Both galaxies are at an equal distance from the Cartwheel Galaxy.

16. Why do astronomers believe that the Milky Way galaxy is interacting with another nearby galaxy?
A Star formation has increased in both galaxies
B The two galaxies are slowly moving toward each other
C A stream of gas and dust connects the two galaxies
D the Hubble Space Telescope found high levels of hydrogen gas near the two galaxies.

17. What is the professor's opinion of recent observations of the Antennae galaxies?
A It is too early to know if they will produce important findings
B They are of limited value, as they
C They illustrate the professor's point that there are multiple forms of galaxy encounters          D They are consistent with commonly accepted scientific theory pure one stage in long process


Section2
C2
1.	What are the speakers mainly discussing? Click on 2 answers
A How non-university guests can get parking passes for the festival
B Where the man should park on Friday
C Why the man received a parking ticket
D How the man can get a special parking pass

2.	Why does the student mention that he plays in the orchestra?
A To let the woman know that he is already aware of an orchestra
B To give a reason for always parking in the same lot
C To try to convince the woman that he should be allowed to park in his usual lot
D To explain why he already has a parking pass for Friday

3.	According to the ticket, what was the student's parking violation?
A Parking in two spaces
B Parking in a lot reserved for guests
C Parking without a proper pass
D Parking in a lot reserved for small cars

4. What will the woman give the student? Click on 2answers.
A More information about where he can park
B A paid receipt for his parking ticket
C A special parking pass for Friday
D The paperwork to contest his ticket

5. Why does the student say this.
A To explain why his car should be allowed in the parking lot
B To complain that the ticket should have been given to a different car
C To reject the woman's explanation for his problem
D To express doubt that more cars can fit in the parking lot

L3
6. What is the lecture mainly about?
A The amount of leadership a small group needs to run smoothly
B Types of tasks more easily solved by groups than by individuals
C Behaviors that contribute to a group’s effectiveness
D The method by which groups divide up their work

7. What does the professor say about the participants in the study?
Click on 2 answers.
A They were chosen to represent a diverse range of people.
B They were asked to come up with solutions to different challenges.
C They were told to act either instrumentally or expressive.
D Their activities were carefully observed and sorted by people

8. Bales classified acts into two basic categories-instrumental and expressive. Cording to this method of classification, which statements are examples of instrumental acts and which statements are examples of expressive acts? Click in the correct boxes.

Let's send out a survey to 50 of our regular customers.
I like your suggestion, but I wonder what some of the people over here have to say.
I think we should rewrite the conclusion of the report.
Wouldn’t it be useful to graph our results?
I completely disagree with you.
Instrumental acts.	Expressive acts
What was the professor's initial reaction to the results of the Bales experiments?
 A She was surprised because the results were not what she expected.
 B She was disappointed that the results were not widely accepted.
 C She was doubtful that the results were valid.
 D She was concerned because the results pointed to no single conclusion.

10. What point does the professor make when she discusses how the groups sequence their activities?
A A Starting the process with expressive acts can help reduce tension.
B Groups should spend very little time on expressive activities
C Beginning the process by proposing solutions is not the best approach
D Group leaders should be flexible in the sequencing of activities

11. Why does the professor say this about positive expressive acts:
A To stress their complexity
B To stress how frequently they occur
C To illustrate their function
D To emphasize that not everyone is capable of doing them

The Sumerians and Regional Interdependence

With the emergence of the Sumerian civilization in about 3100 B.C., a new era in human experience began—one in which the economic, political, and social mechanisms created by humans began to affect the lives of cities, towns, and villages located hundreds and perhaps thousands of miles apart. In a real sense, a rapidly evolving world system linked hundreds of Southwest Asian societies all the way from modern-day eastern Iran to the eastern Mediterranean and the Nile Valley. This nascent world system developed as a result of insatiable demands for nonlocal raw materials in different ecological regions where societies were developing along very similar evolutionary tracks toward greater complexity. In each area, social developments and technological innovations were triggered not only by basic economic needs but also by the competitive instincts of newly urbanized elites, who used lavish display and exotic luxuries to reaffirm their social prestige and authority. Sumerian civilization s a mirror of this developing regional interdependence.

Sumerian civilization came into being as a result of a combination of environmental and social factors. The Sumerians lived in a treeless, lowland environment with fertile soils but no metal, little timber and no semiprecious stones. They obtained these commodities by trading with areas where such items were in abundance. Sumerian rulers controlled not only large grain surpluses that could be moved in river craft but also a flourishing industry in textiles and other luxuries. The trade moved up and down the great rivers, especially the placid Euphrates. Ancient overland trade routes linked the Tigris and Euphrates rivers with the distant cities and ports in the Levant (eastern Mediterranean area). Even as early as Sumerian times, caravans of pack animals joined Anatolia to the Euphrates, the Levant to Mesopotamia, and Mesopotamia to isolated towns on the distant Iranian highlands to the east.

Bronze technology produced tougher edged, more durable artifacts that could be used for more arduous day-to-day tasks. One resulting innovation was the metal- and wood-tipped plow, an implement dragged by oxen that was capable of digging a far deeper furrow than the simple hoes importance and digging sticks of earlier times.The plow was developed as irrigation agriculture assumed greater importance in Sumer, and the combined innovations increased agricultural yields dramatically. These yields not only supported larger urban and rural populations but also provided a means for the rulers of city-states both in Sumer and farther afield to exercise more control over food surpluses and over the wealth obtained by long-distance exchange.

An intricate and ever-changing system of political alliances and individual obligations of friendship linked community with community and city-state with city-state. In time, financial and logistical checks and balances were maintained by an administrative system based in the temples to bring order to what had begun as informal bartering. Specialized merchants began to handle such commodities as copper and lapis lazuli, a semiprecious stone. There was wholesaling and contracting, loans were floated and individual profit was a prime motivation. Increasingly, every city-state, and even entire civilizations, came to depend on the world system, not so much for political stability but for survival.

As the volume of long-distance trade increased dramatically, so competition over resources intensified. Each state raised an army to defend its water rights, trade routes, and city-walls. The onerous tasks of defense and military organization passed to despotic kings supposedly appointed by the gods. Such Sumerian city-states as Erech, Kish, and Ur had periods of political strength and prosperity when they dominated their neighbors. Then, just as swiftly, the tide of their fortunes would change and they would sink into obscurity.

Inevitably, the ambitions of some proud Sumerian leaders led them to entertain bolder visions than merely the control of a few city-states in the lowlands. They were well aware that the control of lucrative sources of raw materials and trade routes was the secret of vast political power. In about 2400 B.C., a monarch named Lugalzagesi boasted of overseeing the entire area from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean. This boast was probably false. It is likely that Sumerian cities dominated the overland routes that linked Mesopotamia, Anatolia and the Levant, but their influence was never permanent, their control probably illusory.

1. It can be inferred from paragraph 1 that before the rise of the Sumerian civilization, Southwest Asian societies had been
more densely populated
more independent of other societies in the region
more complex economically
more dependent on authority
2. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
As complex societies evolved in more and more regions, demands for a new world order increased.
The new world system placed increasing demands on regions of Southwest Asia in which more complex societies had developed.
Less complex societies in the new world system had to demand locally unavailable raw materials from more complex societies in Southwest Asia.
Demands by developing Southwestern Asian societies for raw materials available outside their territories led to the emergence of a world system.
3. According to paragraph 1, one of the causes of the social and technological developments in Southwest Asia at the time of the Sumerian civilization was
increased access to information
improved educational opportunities
competition for prestige and authority
stronger governmental control

4. According to paragraph 2, Sumerians lacked all of the following EXCEPT
semiprecious stones
metals
grain
timber
5. The wordList “arduous” in the passage is closest in meaning to

frequent
important
difficult
specialized

6. According to paragraph 3, in addition to the plow, which of the following was responsible for large increases in agricultural productivity in Sumer?

Irrigation
Large populations
Increased control by rulers
Increased use of digging sticks
7. Paragraph 6 supports which of the following statements about the Sumerian monarch Lugalzagesi?

He probably ruled over the entire area from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean.
He probably did not control more than a few Sumerian city-states in the lowlands.
He probably dominated the overland trade routes that linked Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and the Levant.
He probably lost control of the trade routes started by previous Sumerian monarchs.

8. The wordList “lucrative” in the passage is closest in meaning to

distant
profitable
major
particular
9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

It produced constant disputes and conflicts between neighboring states.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.
The Sumerian civilization typifies the regional interdependence that emerged among Southwest Asian societies around 3100 B.C.
Answer Choices
a.	Urban elites in Sumerian society used luxury items to demonstrate their wealth and high social position.

b.	Sumerians used river and land routes to trade their large grain surpluses and other products or commodes they lacked.

c.	Sumerians developed a sophisticated commercial economy overseen by an administrative system based in the temples.

d.	During the era in which the Sumerian civilization emerged, no other complex societies had yet developed elsewhere.

e.	A few Sumerian city-states dominated their neighbors and remained in power throughout the history of the Sumerian civilization.

f.	Competition for valuable resources and trade routes eventually led to wars and power shifts among Sumerian city-states.


Structure and Composition of Comets

Astronomers now have a fairly good idea of what a comet really is. When it is far from the Sun, it is a very small object only a few kilometers across. It consists mainly of ices (water, methane, ammonia) with bits of dust embedded in it—a kind of dirty ice ball. As it approaches the Sun, radiation from the Sun vaporizes the icy matter and releases some of the dust. This forms a gigantic halo around the ice ball. This halo called—the coma—extends out tens of thousands of kilometers from the icy core, which is the nucleus of the comet. Sunlight reflected off the dust particles makes the coma visible to observers on Earth. Ultraviolet radiation from the Sun breaks down the vapor molecules into their constituents. These components can be excited by absorbing radiation from the Sun. In returning to lower-energy states, the excited atoms and ions emit light, contributing to the luminosity of the coma.

When the comet gets even closer to the Sun, one of its most spectacular parts begins to form—the tail. Actually, there are two kinds of tails: the dust tail and the ion tail. The dust tail is produced by the light from the Sun reflecting off the dust particles in the coma. A photon carries momentum. In bouncing off a dust particle, it imparts a tiny, but perceptible, momentum change to the dust particle, driving it away from the coma. As the comet sweeps along its orbit, it leaves a curving trail of dust behind in its path. This visible dust tail can extend for tens or hundreds of millions of kilometers out from the nucleus. The dust tail is characterized by its gently curving shape and its yellowish color.

A different mechanism is responsible for the ion tail. Near the Sun, ultraviolet radiation from the Sun (solar wind) ionizes and excites the atoms in the coma. As the solar wind sweeps through the coma, the high-velocity charged particles of the solar wind interact with the electrically charged excited ions in the coma, driving them away from the head of the comet. In returning to lower-energy states, these excited ions emit photons and form a luminous, bluish-colored tail extending out from the comet directly away from the Sun. Since both kinds of tails are produced by radiation streaming out from the Sun, they extend out from the coma in the general direction away from the Sun. A comet may exhibit several tails of each kind.

Although the nucleus is of the order of a few kilometers in size, the diameter of the coma may be tens or hundreds of thousands of kilometers, the tails typically extend out tens or hundreds of millions of kilometers away from the coma.

A comet leaves a trail of matter behind it as it moves through the inner solar system. Some of this debris may get strewn across Earth’s orbit around the Sun. When Earth passes through this part of its annual path, if sweeps through the dust trail. The particles enter Earths atmosphere at high velocity. The air friction can cause one of these bits of matter to produce a brief streak of light as it bums up in the atmosphere.

Since a comet loses matter on each pass by the Sun, eventually it will be depleted to the point where it is no longer visible. Comets that approach the Sun have finite lifetimes. Given the typical sizes of comets and the typical rates at which they lose matter, astronomers have concluded that the lifetimes of comets with orbits that bring them near enough to the Sun to be seen from Earth are very much shorter than the age of the solar system. Where do the new comets come from to replace the old ones that dissipate and vanish from view?

Dutch astronomer Jan Oort proposed that a giant cloud of matter left over from the formation of the solar system surrounds the Sun and extends out to about 50,000 astronomical units. This cloud contains large chunks of matter like the nuclei of comets. The gravitational influence of a passing star can be sufficient to perturb the orbit of one of these chunks to send it toward the inner solar system and bring it near the Sun.

1. Select the TWO answer choices from paragraph 1 that describe changes that occur as a comet approaches the Sun. To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.
Water methane and ammonia condense into a core
The icy content of the comet begins to vaporize
The comets halo decreases in size
Dust particles and vapor form a coma

2. The wordList “imparts” in the passage is closest in meaning to

shows
gives
confirms
maintains
3. According to paragraphs 2 and 3, all of the following statements about comet tails are true EXCEPT

Ion tails are created by ultraviolet radiation.
Photons are active in creating both ion tails and dust tails.
Dust tails follow in the path of a comet.
Ion tails have a curved shape and yellowish color.

4. According to paragraph 3, the tails of a comet

flow in the same direction as the radiation that produces them
become straighter as the comet moves away from the Sun
are pulled toward the Sun
can become detached from the comet head if the solar winds are strong enough
5. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
The diameter of a coma is usually larger than the tails that extend away from it, while the nucleus is much smaller.
The diameters of the nucleus, coma, and tail of a comet exhibit minor differences in size.
The nucleus is reduced in size, while the coma and tails extend far into space.
Comet tails are much larger than the coma, which is much larger than the nucleus.

6. According to paragraph 5, what happens when Earth passes through the dust trail of a comet?

Dust particles burn up in Earth's atmosphere.
The comet's orbit is changed.
The dust trail is completely destroyed.
The comet's tails change direction.

7. What does paragraph 6 imply about comets that are visible from Earth?

The visible comets grow brighter as they grow older.
The comets that are visible from Earth today have not been orbiting close to the Sun throughout the history of the solar system.
There were fewer visible comets during the early history of the solar system than there are today.
The average lifetime of the visible comets is decreasing.

8. According to paragraph 7, how did astronomer Jan Oort contribute to our understanding of comets?

He theorized that comets form when passing stars push chunks of debris from the outer to the inner solar system.
He proposed a way of comparing comets in our own solar system with those that orbit other stars.
He explained that the lifetime of a comet depends on its distance from the Sun at the time the solar system was formed.
He proved that old comets do not really disappear, they just move beyond the limits of the solar system.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

This streaking phenomenon is called a meteor or sometimes a falling star or shooting star.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.
10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.
Astronomers have acquired much information about the composition of comets and the ways comets change as they move through the solar system.
Answer Choices
a.	Ices and dust particles compose the nucleus of a comet.

b.	A comet produces tails and a coma as it approaches the Sun.

c.	The type of tail exhibited by a comet depends on its proximity to the Sun.

d.	The coma of a comet is typically larger than the tail if a comet.

e.	The solar system contains a limited number of comets.

f.	Comets lost matter each time they pass by the Sun, until they eventually disappear.


The Roman Empire

After the formation of the Roman Republic in 509 B. C, the Romans expanded the borders of their realm through near-continuous warfare. At its greatest extent, in the early second century AD, the Roman Empire reached from the Euphrates River in southwest Asia to Scotland in the West. The vast territory ringed the Mediterranean Sea-mare nostrum, or “our sea, “the Romans called it. As the Romans absorbed the peoples they conquered, they imposed on them a legal, administrative, and cultural structure that endured for some five centuries-in the eastern Mediterranean until the fifteenth century A.D. -and left a lasting mark on the civilizations that emerged in Europe.

Conquering and maintaining a vast empire required not only inspired leadership and tactics but also enduring contributions to Western civilization-its system of law, its governmental and administrative structures, and its sophisticated civil engineering and architecture-reflect these qualities.

To facilitate the development and administration of the empire, as well as to make city life comfortable and attractive to its citizens, the Roman government undertook building programs of unprecedented scale and complexity, mandating the construction of central administrative and legal centers(forums and basilicas ), recreational facilities (racetracks and stadiums), theaters, public baths, roads, bridges, aqueducts(bridge-like structures for carrying fresh water from the mountains), middle class housing, and even new towns. To accomplish these tasks without sacrificing beauty, efficiency and human well-being, Roman builders and architects developed rational plans using easily worked but durable materials and highly sophisticated engineering methods. The architect Vitruvius described these accomplishments in his Ten Books of Architecture.

To move their armies about efficiently, speed communications between Rome and the farthest reaches of the empire, and promote commerce, the Romans built a vast and sophisticated network of roads and bridges. Many modern European highways still follow the lines laid down by Roman engineers, and foundations dating from the Roman era underlie the streets of many cities. Roman bridges are still in use, and remnants of Roman aqueducts need only repairs and connecting links to enable them to function again. The Pont du Gard, near Nimes in southern France, for example, is a powerful reminder of Rome’s rapid spread and enduring impact Entirely functional, the Roman aqueduct conveys the balance, proportion, and rhythmic harmony of a great work of art and fits naturally into the landscape, a reflection of the Romans attitude toward the land.

Despite their sophistication as city-dwellers, Romans liked to portray themselves as simple country folk who had never lost their love of nature. The middle classes enjoyed their town home gardens, wealthy city dwellers maintained rural estates, and Roman emperors had country villas that were both functioning farms and places of recreation. Wealthy Romans even brought nature indoors by commissioning artists to paint landscapes on the interior walls of their homes.

The Romans particularly admired Greek art Historians have even suggested that although Rome conquered the Greek world, Greek culture conquered Rome. The Romans used Greek designs and Greek styles of columns in their architecture, imported Greek art, and employed Greek artists. In 146 B C. for example, they stripped the Greek city of Corinth of its art treasures and shipped them back to Rome Ironically this love of Greek art was not accompanied by admiration for its artists. In Rome as in Greece, professional artists were generally considered little more than skilled laborers.

Although the Romans had gods of their own, hey also adopted many Greek gods and myths and assimilated Greek religious beefs and practices into a form of state religion. To these gods they added their own defied emperors, in part to maintain the allegiance of the culturally diverse populations of the empire. Worship of ancon gods mingled with homage o past rules, and oaths of allegiance to the living ruler made the official religion a political duty-- increasingly ritualized perfunctory and distant from the everyday life of the average person. As a result, many Romans adopted the more personal religious beliefs of the people they had conquered. These unauthorized religions flourished despite occasional government efforts to suppress them.


1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of the Roman Empire?
A.	It included more territory in the early second century A.D. than at any other time.
B.	It had reached the Euphrates River in southwest Asia by 509 B.C.
C.	It endured in the eastern Mediterranean for about five centuries.
D.	It allowed conquered peoples to keep their own government and cultural structures.

2. The wordList “durable” in the passage is closed in meaning to
A.	convenient
B.	attractive
C.	low-cost
D.	long-lasting

3. The wordList “remnants” in the passage is closest in meaning to
A.	copies
B.	plans
C.	remains
D.	surfaces
4. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways of leave out essential information.
A.	Because the Romans believed that works of art fit more naturally into the landscape than practical structures, their aqueducts were always in use.
B.	The Roman aqueduct is a functional and artistic structure reflecting the idea that architecture should blend naturally with the landscape.
C.	The Roman aqueduct reflects the qualities of a functional structure rather than those of a great work of art.
D.	The Roman aqueduct conveys the belief that a great work of art is often inspired by the landscape.
5. According to paragraph 4, all of the following were true of Roman roads EXCEPT
A.	They commonly ran alongside Roman aqueducts
B.	They extended from Rome to distant parts of the Empire.
C.	They were built in part to facilitate trade and business.
D.	They determined the course of some modern roads.
6. In paragraph 6, why does the author mention that the Romans stripped the Greek city of Corinth of its art treasures and shipped them back to Rome?
A.	To explain how the Romans first became familiar with Greek designs.
B.	To emphasize that Romans usually removed possessions from countries they conquered.
C.	To illustrate the Roman admiration for Greek art.
D.	To argue that the Romans associated art with military power.
7. According to paragraph 6, which of the following best describes how Romans felt about artists?
A.	They respected Greek artists more than Roman artists
B.	They valued artworks more than they valued artists
C.	They considered artists to be far superior to skilled laborers
D.	They admired Greek architecture more than Greek art

8. According to paragraph 7, the Romans made god of their emperors partly in order to
A.	encourage loyalty to the Roman state
B.	imitate the Greek practice of making gods of important rulers
C.	claim het their emperors wee more powerful than ancient gods
D.	promote the worship of Roman rather than Greek gods
9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence can be added to the passage.
For example, the so-called mystery religions, some of which originated in the formerly independent countries of Egypt, Anatolia, and Persia, attracted a number of followers in Rome.
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.
10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Drag your choices to the spaces where they belong. To review the passage, click on View Text.
There were a number of different reasons for the greatness of the Roman Empire.



A. The Romans allowed the legal and administrative structures of conquered lands to operate independently of Rome
B. The Romans developed a wide variety of techniques and institutions to efficiently administer their territories
C. Landscape and nature were not represented in the decorations inside Roman homes
D. The Romans built architectural structures that are still functional today
E. Greek culture had a significant impact on the art and religious beliefs of the Romans
F. The Roman government made attempts to eliminate unauthorized religions

Question 1 of 4
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
Teachers should not be too friendly to their students.
Use details and examples to explain your answer.
Preparation Time: 15 Seconds
Response Time: 45 Seconds


Question 2 of 4
Reading Time: 50 seconds
New Degree Navigator Web Site
Students must complete certain courses in their fields of study in order to meet the requirement for graduation. Currently, students meet with academic advisors to discuss these requirements. Soon, though, students will be able to use a new degree navigator Web site to keep track of their requirements. The Web site will make it easier for students to monitor which courses they have already completed and which ones they still need to take before graduating, so they can plan their schedules accordingly. Also, the Web site will help reduce the workload for academic advisors, who will not need to meet with students as often.

The man expresses his opinion about the plan described in the article. Briefly summarize the plan. Then state his opinion about the plan and explain the reasons he gives for holding that opinion.
Preparation Time: 30 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds


Question 3 of 4
Reading Time: 45 seconds
Near-Field Sound Detection
Some animals are able to use sound to avoid predators. When sound is produced, it creates vibrations in the surrounding air. These vibrations are known as near-field sounds because they originate, or begin, near the sound source. Most animals are unable to detect these kinds of sounds. However, some animals have an ability known as near-field detection. This ability allows certain animals to detect vibrations or near-field sounds produced by potential predators. Animals with near-field sound detection abilities have special physical features that allow them to sense an approaching predator and take action to protect themselves.

Explain how the example from the professor’s lecture illustrates the concept of near-field sound detection.
Preparation Time: 30 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds


Question 4 of 4
Using points and examples from the lecture, explain how decentralization can have disadvantages for a company.
Preparation Time: 20 Seconds
Response Time: 60 Seconds

Native to Europe and Asia, cheatgrass is an invasive species of grass that is causing problems in North American fields. The plant quickly dominates fields that it has invaded and drives out other plants. This can cause, among other problems, severe damage to animal habitats and to scenic areas. Several solutions to the cheatgrass problem have been proposed by ecologists.

One option is to encourage animals such as cattle to feed on cheatgrass. Cattle and other livestock are known as grazers because they graze, or eat small portions of grass or other plants throughout the day. If grazers were released in fields where cheatgrass is prevalent, the cheatgrass would be reduced. That would create room for native species to reestablish themselves and flourish. This plan is appealing because cheatgrass is most prevalent in areas of North America where cattle and other livestock are raised.

Another option is to burn the cheatgrass off the fields with controlled fires. This plan has the advantage of eliminating vast amounts of cheatgrass in a short time. Cheatgrass, it turns out, is a highly flammable plant it burns much more easily than the native plant species that have been crowded out. Strategically set fires could burn away the cheatgrass where it has come to dominate, creating space so the newly cleared fields could be reseeded with native grasses and other plants.

Still another option is to introduce a fungal parasite that specifically attacks cheatgrass. In Europe and Asia, where cheatgrass is a native species, there is a species of fungus that has the ability to prevent cheatgrass from reproducing. Introducing this fungus in North American fields where cheatgrass has proliferated could slow the spread of cheatgrass, making it possible for native species to better compete against cheatgrass.

Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
Nowadays people are more willing to help people they don’t know (for example, by giving clothing and food to people who need them) than they were in the past.

Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer Be sure to use your own words Do not use memorized examples

Section 1
Conversation 1
1 What are the speakers mainly discussing
A.	A paper the woman is writing about a philosopher
B.	A disagreement between two philosophers about a term
C.	The interpretation of a term used in a philosopher's work
D.	The professor's opinion about a philosopher

2 Why does the professor ask the woman about the early Middle Ages?
A.	To elicit an example of a grand narrative
B.	To make a point about changes in technology
C.	To encourage her to compare two grand narratives
D.	To present an example that contradicts Lyotard

3 What points does the professor make about scientific progress?
Click on 2 answers
A.	Historically, people have believed that it improves the world
B.	According to Lyotard, it has caused more harm than good
C.	It is part of a grand narrative that has changed over time
D.	According to Lyotard, its benefits should be questioned

4 Why does the woman mention pollution?
A.	To demonstrate the problem with Lyotard's claim
B.	To ask how important it is in Lyotard's argument
C.	To illustrate the negative effects of technology
D.	To introduce another grand narrative

Listen again to part of the conversation. Then answer the question.
5 what does the professor mean when he says this:
A.	He is going to change the topic of the conversation
B.	He is going to challenge the woman’s belief
C.	He wants to clarify the time period in question
D.	He wants to correct statement the made earlier

Lecture 1
6 What is the lecture mainly about?
A.	Advantages that countries can gain by making their own goods
B.	Inequalities that lead to trade imbalances between countries
C.	Cost and efficiency concepts that help determine trade decisions
D.	Ways in which local surpluses can affect international trade

7 Why does the professor talk about growing bananas in countries with tropical climates?
A.	To show how opportunity costs affect agricultural production
B.	To explain how demand for a product determines its cost
C.	To describe how domestic shortages are created
D.	To illustrate the concept of absolute advantage

8 According to the professor, what indicates that a country has an absolute advantage in trade?
A.	It can produce an item more efficiently than other countries
B.	It is wealthy enough to import everything that it needs
C.	It consistently exports more than it imports
D.	It don’t not have to import any goods from other countries

9 The professor gives an example of two countries that produce televisions and chairs. What does she predict will happen if the economic decisions of both counties are based on the principle of comparative advantage?
Click on 2 answers

A. The prices of televisions and chairs will go down in both countries
B. More chairs and televisions will be manufactured in each country
C. Imports of televisions and chairs will decrease in each country
D. The total supply of televisions and chairs will increase in both countries.

10 Why does the professor talk about going to the movies?
A.	To demonstrate the difference between absolute and comparative advantage
B.	To provide an example to help explain the concept of opportunity costs
C.	To illustrate the advantages of specialization in the entertainment industry
D.	To show that economic theories do not always apply on a personal level

11 Listen again to part of the conversation. Then answer the question.
Why does the professor say this?
A.  To reassure the students that the example will help illustrate her point.
B.  To apologize to the students for using an example that is difficult to understand
C.  To prepare the class for a shift to a new topic
D.  To return to a point she made earlier


Lecture2
12 What does the professor mainly discuss?
A.	A weather phenomenon associated with continental polar air masses
B.	A recent study comparing snowfall statistics in different regions
C.	Ways in which air masses interact to create different types of precipitation
D.	The formation of continental polar air masses in northern and Arctic regions

13 According to the professor, what is true of a continental polar air mass when it forms.
Click on 2 answers
A.	Its temperature Is fairly consistent
B.	It has low levels of humidity
C.	It is somewhat turbulent
D.	It moves north toward cold regions

14 Lake Superior is the northernmost Great Lake Compared with the other Great Lakes. What can be inferred about Lake Superior
A.	It does not produce as many clouds that can rise into a polar air mass
B.	The cities on its downwind shores receive more snow compared to cities near other lakes
C.	There is a greater difference between its temperature and that of the and surrounding it
D.	The lake-effect snowstorms that it produces tend to be less intense than storms near other lakes

15 The professor describes the process by which great lakes effect snow. Put the steps in the correct order. Click on a phrase. Then drag it to the space where it belongs.
A.	The polar air mass becomes unstable.
B.	The lakes absorb large amounts of energy from the Sun and air.
C.	The polar air mass acquires heat and moisture from the lakes.
D.	Heavy snowstorms occur when the polar air mass hits land.

16 Why is Thunder Bay not very affected by lake-effect snow?
A.	It is located close to a lake that protects it
B.	It is located on the northwestern shore of a lake
C.	It is located in a region that is too warm to receive much snow
D.	It is located near a lake that is too small to produce much snow

17 What is the professor’s opinion about the future of lake-effect snowfalls?
A.	They will vary greatly from year to year
B.	They will definitely become more frequent
C.	They will begin occurring earlier in the year
D.	It is possible they will occur less often than they

Section2
TP64 C2
1． Why does the student go to see the art gallery coordinator?
A.	To borrow some equipment for a show
B.	To find out when a student art exhibition will open
C.	To discuss the theme of a senior art exhibition
D.	To arrange a suitable location for a work of art

2． What has the student created for her senior art project?
Click on 2 answers
A. An oil painting
B. A picture frame
C. A software program
D. Abstract images

3 What does the student imply about the use of a projector?
A.	it is necessary to achieve a particular visual illusion
B.	It may interfere with visitors’ ability to see other artworks
C.	The projector will need to be hidden from view
D.	The projector has to be attached to the wall at a particular height

4 How does the man intend to respond to the students worries about lighting
A.	By lowering the lights in the whole gallery
B.	By adding lights over the students work
C.	By turning spotlights in a different direction
D.	By putting a stronger lightbulb in a projector

5 Listen again to part of the conversation. Then answer the question.
Why does the man say this:
A.	To find out the student needs assistance.
B.	To express the doubt about the project’s practicality.
C.	To return the discussion to the original topic
D.	To suggest a solution to the student’s problem


Lecture 3

Lecture 3
6 Why does the professor discuss Gila monsters?
A.	As an example of an animal that is highly venomous
B.	As an example of an animal that has adapted to living in deserts
C.	As an example of an animal that might seem difficult to classify
D.	As an example of an animal whose behavior is not well understood

7 What reason does the professor give for classifying Gila monsters as lizard.
A.	Their venom is more dangerous than snake venom
B.	Their colors blend with the desert surroundings
C.	They have skeletal features common to all lizards
D.	They reproduce the same way as lizards do

8 According to the professor when do Gila monsters use their venom?
A.	When their efforts to hide from danger fail
B.	When they are hunting large prey
C.	When they are digesting their food
D.	When they are invading the territories of other Gila monsters

9 Why does the professor mention chemical compounds in Gila monster venom?
A.	To support her argument that Gila monsters must be protected
B.	To cite a practical use of Gila monster venom
C.	To support the idea that snakes and Gila monsters should be classified together
D.	To compare the strength of snake and Gila monster venom

10 Listen again to part of the lecture. Then answer the question.
Why does the professor say this :
A.	To determine whether the students are familiar with Gila monsters.
B.	To introduce a personal story about her hometown.
C.	To challenge a statement from one of the students.
D.	To encourage the students to do more research on animals from the Southwest

11 Listen again to part of the lecture. Then answer the question.
Why does the student say this :
A.	To make sure that he is looking at the right picture
B.	To suggest that the professor’s explanation needs to be clarified.
C.	To give an example that supports what the professor has just said
D.	To point out that the professor’s description differs from the book’s description.


Characteristics of Pterosaurs

The extinct flying reptiles called pterosaurs were the second group of animals (after insects) to evolve flight. Most pterosaurs were about the size of modem seagulls. A few were as small as sparrows, but some of the later species were the largest flying animals that have ever lived. In 1817 Theodore Von Soemmerring published the first description of a pterosaur fossil, and thinking that it was that of an unusual bat species, he drew his reconstruction with a very bat-like posture and wing. His early reconstruction of a pterosaur has haunted the public and scientific perception of pterosaurs ever since.  Soemmerring's reconstruction is understandable given that he was the first to try to describe a pterosaur, that few naturalists of the time accepted the idea of major groups of extinct animals, and that both pterosaurs’ and bats’ wings consist of a membrane supported by enormously elongated finger bones. Soemmerring showed his pterosaur with the laterally directed legs and reoriented feet of bats and with the wing membrane stretching from the arm and finger along the sides of the body and legs all the way to the ankle. The reconstruction also included a membrane stretching between the legs, similar to that in bats. Even though other scientists developed less bat-like descriptions of pterosaurs in the late 1800s, the popular literature, and even some scientific literature, continued to describe pterosaurs as bat-like into the 1980s.

Bats perch by hanging upside down from tree limbs and roofs of caves. Though many are surprisingly agile climbers, bats are generally awkward when crawling on level surfaces. Did pterosaurs also hang upside down and avoid landing on the ground? Until recently, some paleontologists thought they did, but most scientists now agree that pterosaurs got around on the ground reasonably well. What is still uncertain is whether pterosaurs walked on all fours or just on their hindlegs. Pterosaurs’ ancestors were bipedal (two-footed) and used their tails to balance their forward-tilted trunks and heads. Early pterosaurs also had long tails and probably could have run on their hindlegs, certainly handy for an animal with wings for forelimbs. These early pterosaurs, however, could have used their forelimbs for walking because their arm and hand bones were only slightly enlarged-most of the wing was supported by the gigantic fourth finger.

Later pterosaurs are more enigmatic: their arms and especially their hands seem too long to be used comfortably for walking, but their tails were too short to counterbalance their bodies if they walked on their hind-legs. Birds also have short, stubby tail skeletons, but they manage to walk quite well on their hind-legs. Birds manage this by angling the thighs forward to get their feet under the bodys center of gravity. They hold their thighs at this unstable angle with extensive hip and thigh muscles. Some researchers have suggested that pterosaurs’ hipbones were too small to anchor extensive thigh-positioning muscles, but others have responded that pterosaurs’ leg and foot bones are so strikingly have concluded that a number of fossil trackways—trails of preserved footprints—were made by pterydactyloid pterosaurs, and these animals clearly walked on all four limbs. Perhaps some early pterosaurs walked on their hind-legs, but according to current evidence, most species probably walked on all fours. In any case, large pterosaurs, with eight- or ten-meter wingspans and weighing as much as an adult human, do not seem likely candidates for a bat-like existence confined to clambering about in trees and hanging upside down from branches.

Pterosaurs also possessed some obvious adaptations for powered flight. They had large sternums (breastbones) for attaching powerful flight muscles, well-developed shoulder bones to carry the body’s weight in flight, and air-filled bones to lighten the skeleton. Some even had a furcula (a fused breastbone also found in birds), perhaps to flex like a spring and help raise the wings during the upstroke. How competent were they at flying? The original bat-like reconstructions, along with their classification as reptiles, suggested to many earlier biologists that pterosaurs were only gliders. Biologists now, however, generally agree that pterosaurs were capable of powered, flapping flight. Indeed, the shoulder joint is clearly specialized for the down-and-forward, up-and-back movement of normal flapping.

1. In the discussion of Soemmerring in paragraph 1, why does the author mention that “few naturalists of the time accepted the idea of major groups of extinct animals”?

a.	To support the position that Soemmerring was the first to recognize the scientific significance of pterosaur fossils
b.	To suggest that Soemmerring's reconstruction of the pterosaur went against a commonly accepted position of naturalists at that time
c.	To help explain why it was reasonable for Soemmerring to think that pterosaurs were related to today's bats
d.	To indicate how little was known about pterosaurs before Soemmerring published his reconstruction

2. According to paragraph 1, Soemmerring believed that pterosaurs had all of the following features EXCEPT

a.	wings that were attached to the sides of the body
b.	wings without bones
c.	legs that were oriented laterally
d.	a membrane between the legs

3. The wordList “awkward” in the passage is closest in meaning to

a.	careful
b.	clumsy
c.	slow
d.	Helpless

4. In paragraph 2, what evidence suggests that early pterosaurs walked on their hind legs only?

a.	The arm and hand bones on early pterosaurs were enlarged.
b.	The tails of pterosaurs may have been long enough to use for balance.
c.	The trunks and heads of early pterosaurs may have been tilted forward.
d.	The wings of early pterosaurs were largely supported by a single finger.

5. The wordList"slightly" in the passage is closest in meaning to

a.	a little
b.	in part
c.	gradually
d.	Occasionally

6. The wordList “strikingly” in the passage is closest in meaning o

a.	perfectly
b.	suspiciously
c.	remarkably
d.	elegantly

7. What evidence is presented in paragraph 3 that at least some pterosaurs walked on all four of their limbs?

a.	The position of their feet relative to the body's center of gravity in some pterosaurs.
b.	The considerable wingspan and weight of some pterosaurs.
c.	Fossil trackways left by some pterosaurs.
d.	The shape of the leg bones and feet bones in some pterosaurs.

8. According to paragraph 4, what are two indicators that pterosaurs were capable of powered flight? To receive credit, you must select TWO answers.

a.	Their shoulder bones allowed the wings to move in more than one direction.
b.	Their furcula was separate rather than fused to the breastbone.
c.	Their bones were filled with air rather than bone tissue.
d.	Their weight was primarily concentrated in the wing flight muscle.

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

Flying was thought to require more energy than cold-blooded reptiles were capable of  generating.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

Soemmerring’s description of the pterosaur has had a major impact on people’s perception of the creature.

Answer Choices

a.	While Soemmerring recognized certain similarities between pterosaurs and bats, he did not believe the two species were related.

b.	Scientists long believed that, like bats, pterosaurs lived in trees and caves.

c.	In Soemmering's view, bats and pterosaurs had many two limbs features in common, including the way the wing was attached to the rest of the body.

d.	While it seems likely that some early pterosaurs walked on two limbs and some later ones walked on four limbs, biologists remain uncertain about how many pterosaurs walked.

e.	Other than birds, pterosaurs were the only species to have a fused breastbone that could bend when the forelimbs were raised or lowered.

f.	Based on various skeletal features, most biologists now believe that pterosaurs were actually capable of powered, flapping flight.


Auditory Perception in Infancy

Because they have had some practice in hearing before birth, it is not surprising that infants have reasonably good auditory perception after they are born. In fact, for certain very high and very low frequencies, infants actually are more sensitive to sound than adults—a sensitivity that seems to increase during the first two years of life. On the other hand, infants are initially less sensitive than adults to middle-range frequencies. Eventually, however, their capabilities within the middle range improve.

It is not fully clear what leads to the improvement during infancy in sensitivity to sounds, although it may be related to the maturation of the nervous system. More puzzling is why, after infancy, children’s ability to hear very high and low frequencies gradually declines. One explanation may be that exposure to high levels of noise may diminish capacities at the extreme ranges.

In addition to the ability to detect sound, infants need several other abilities in order to hear effectively. For instance, sound localization permits infants to pinpoint the direction from which a sound is emanating. Compared to adults, infants have a slight handicap in this task, because effective sound localization requires the use of the slight difference in the times at which a sound reaches our two ears. Because infants’ head are smaller than those of adults, the difference in timing of the arrival of sound at the two ears is less than it is in adults. However, despite the potential limitation brought about by their smaller heads, infant’s sound localization abilities are actually fairly good even at birth, and they reach adult levels of success by the age of one year. Interestingly, their improvement is not steady: although we don’t know why, the accuracy of sound localization actually declines between birth and two months of age, but then begins to increase.

Even more important to their ultimate success in the world, young infants are capable of making the fine discriminations that their future understanding of language will require. For instance, in one classic study, a group of one-to four-month-old infants sucked on nipples that activated a recording of a person saying “ba” every time they sucked. At first, their interest in the sound made them suck vigorously. Soon, though, they became acclimated to the sound and sucked with less energy. On the other hand, when the experimenters changed the sound to “pa”, the infants immediately showed new interest and sucked with greater vigor once again. The clear conclusion: infants as young as one month old could make the distinction between the two similar sounds.

Even more intriguing is the fact that young infants are able to discriminate certain characteristics that differentiate one language from another. Some evidence suggests that even two day olds show preferences for the language spoken by those around them over other languages. In the first few months, the ability to discriminate between languages develops rapidly. By the age of five months, they in meter number of syllables and speed of recitation can distinguish the difference between English and Spanish passages, even when the two are similar in meter number of syllables and speed of recitation.

Given their ability to discriminate a difference in speech as slight as the difference between two consonants, it is not surprising that infants can distinguish different people on the basis of voice. In fact, from an early age they show clear preferences for some voices over others. For instance, in one experiment newborns were allowed to suck a nipple that turned on a recording of a human voice reading a story. The infants sucked significantly longer when the voice was that of their mother than when the voice was that of a stranger.

How do such preferences arise? One hypothesis is that prenatal exposure to the mothers voice is the key. As support for this conjecture, researchers point to the fact that newborns do not show preference for their fathers’ voices over other male voices. Furthermore, newborns prefer listening to melodies sung by their mothers before they were born to melodies that were not sung before birth. It seems, then, that the prenatal exposure to their mothers’ voices—although muffled by the liquid environment of the womb—helps shape infants’ listening preferences.

1. The wordList “initially” in the passage is closest in meaning to

a.	usually
b.	at first
c.	to some extent
d.	basically

2. According to paragraph 1, which of the following statements does NOT accurately characterize auditory capability in infants?

a.	Infants have good auditory capabilities in extreme frequencies rather than in middle frequencies.
b.	Infants have no experience with auditory stimuli before they are born.
c.	Infants are more capable of hearing high and low frequencies than adults are, and this capability increases during the first two years of life.
d.	An infants sensitivity to frequencies in the middle range improves as the infant grows older.

3. Which of the following best describes the organization of paragraph 2?

a.	A brief discussion of two changes in auditory perception together with possible explanations of them
b.	Two hypotheses about auditory perception, followed by summaries of experiments that have tested those hypotheses
c.	A brief history of studies of auditory perception, followed by a discussion of two recent studies
d.	A comparison of two different answers to an important question in the study of auditory perception

4. According to paragraph 3, which of the following statements does NOT accurately characterize infants sound-localization capabilities?

a.	The sound-localization capabilities of infants do not improve steadily, but the reason for this is unknown.
b.	Infants ability to localize sound declines steadily after two months of age, but then increases after the age of one.
c.	The comparatively short distance between the ears of infants makes their sound localization potentially less exact than that of adults.
d.	By the age of one year, infants’ sound-localization capabilities are similar to those of adults.

5. Which of the following statements describes a finding from the classic study on infants auditory perception that is discussed in paragraph 4?

a.	Infants are more interested in sounds of spoken language than they are in other kinds of sounds.
b.	Infants show more interest in some consonant sounds than others.
c.	When the sound infants are hearing is changed, the infants lose interest.
d.	Even very young infants are able to notice slight differences in sound.

6. The classic study discussed in paragraph 4 supports which of the following claims?

a.	The infants sucking responses would have been different if a different pair of consonants had been used.
b.	The infants in the study had previous exposure to a language in which the difference between “ba” and “pa” is important.
c.	Infants are more interested in what is new or unexpected than they are in any particular consonant sound.
d.	Infants are able to produce the distinct consonant sounds that they hear as distinct.

7. What is the main point of paragraph 5?

a.	Very young children can distinguish between the sounds of different languages even though they cannot speak.
b.	Many children are exposed at an early age to both English and Spanish.
c.	Meter and speed of recitation are two characteristics children use to distinguish one language from another.
d.	Children recognize similar sounding words in different languages.

8. Why does the author discuss the voices of fathers and other males in paragraph 7?

a.	To emphasize the difference between the auditory abilities before and after a child is born.
b.	To provide evidence that infants listening preferences are shaped by what they hear in the womb.
c.	To argue that very young infants may have difficulty distinguishing between two similar-sounding voices.
d.	To argue that infants are less interested in male voices than female voices.

9. Paragraph 6 answers which of the following questions about the auditory abilities of infants?

a.	What quality of a voice allows an infant to distinguish between different voices?
b.	Can newborns distinguish between tapes of their mother reading different stories?
c.	Can newborns distinguish between tapes of different strangers reading the same story?
d.	Can infants notice when the reader of a recorded story is changed?

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

Studies have shown that auditory perception in infants is quite sophisticated.

Answer Choices

a.	Infants’ ability to hear high and low frequencies is better than that of adults, and their ability to locate the source of a sound is also surprisingly good.

b.	At an early age, infants are able to make auditory discriminations between two similar sounds, different languages, and different voices.

c.	During the first two years of life, infants sensitivity to middle-range frequencies improves more rapidly than their sensitivity to sounds at extreme frequencies.

d.	In one classic study, infants sucked vigorously on a nipple when they heard a recording of a person saying “ba,” but lost interest once the sound changed to “pa.”

e.	Studies have shown that the liquid environment of the womb prevents a father's voice from being heard, which causes a newborn to prefer its mother’s voice.

f.	The preference of newborns for their mother’s voice and melodies the mother sang during pregnancy suggest that prenatal exposure affects auditory development in the womb.


The Development of Complex Societies in Ancient Mexico

Between 9,000 and 4,000 years ago, most of Mexico was inhabited mainly by hunter-foragers who lived in small bands that moved with the seasons to exploit cactus fruits, deer herds, nuts, and the hundreds of other plant and animal species in their range, depending on the season. Since these bands were small in size and never stayed in one place for a sufficient period of time to have much long-term effect on the plant and animal populations on which they subsisted, the hunter-foragers’ overall impact on their environment was low. A few groups along the margins of the lake in the Valley of Mexico may have been sedentary villagers, as were some groups along the coasts, and their role in the domestication of plants and animals and the eventual spread of agriculture is unclear. Some researchers suggest, however, that by about 4,000 years ago, maize cob size had become large enough that people over large areas of the Mexican highlands could subsist mainly on maize.

The recent re-dating of some of the supposedly earliest domesticated maize in Mesoamerica (Ancient Mexico) to about 3500 B.C. raises the possibility that initial agriculture evolved out of intensified foraging by groups of people who were relatively sedentary, perhaps living all or most of the year in one or a few places, and that they were perhaps even in the process of developing social differences (social hierarchy) that increased the intensity of their foraging. However maize was domesticated, and by whom, maize appears to have reached sufficient productivity to permit the village-farming way of life soon after about 2000 B.C., and agricultural communities appeared at about this time in many different areas.

From the hot wet coastal lowlands to the arid Tehuacan Valley, the earliest villages were quite similar in size and contents. Almost all houses were built using the wattle-and-daub method—sticks, branches, and cane were woven in-and-out between vertical wall poles, then covered with a mud plaster, which was dried by the hot sun. Houses, which were seldom larger than four by six meters, featured thatched roofs and tamped clay floors on which fine sand was scattered.

Most of the earliest farming communities were tiny hamlets—villages of ten to twelve houses that were home to about fifty to sixty people—but some communities were larger. Most houses that have been excavated have yielded the same remains, mainly grinding stones, storage pits, pieces of large ceramic storage jars, bones of cottontail rabbits, carbonized maize fragments, and broken pieces of ceramic charcoal braziers. In addition, ovens, middens, and graves are very common. While the proportion of plant and animal foods varied somewhat, all villages probably grew maize, beans, squash, peppers, and some other crops, and hunted deer and rabbits. Each village, or each extended family, may have had a specialist who did pressure flaking of stone (to make tools), leather-working, or a similar craft, and individual villages may have concentrated on specialties like salt production, feather-weaving, shell-working, and grinding stone manufacture.

As in Mesopotamia, China, and elsewhere, the background to the origins of complex society in Mesoamerica was a great scatter of relatively simple agricultural villages in which the mechanics of producing a reliable, expandable food supply had been mastered. An early radical break with the simple village farming tradition of Mesoamerica occurred in the sweltering lowlands of the South Gulf Coast of Mexico. Here, beginning at about 1000 B.C., people built massive clay pyramids and platforms, lived in small town groups of hundreds or even thousands, intensively farmed a variety of ecological zones, and produced what is one of the world’s most valued examples of stone sculpture.

These people are known to us as the Olmec, a name derived from an ancient American wordList for rubber—doubtless a reference to the rubber trees that grow in this area—but a name they themselves probably did not use. Some scholars have considered the possibility that the Olmec culture was the mother culture of all later complex societies in Mesoamerica and that the Olmec were directly responsible for transforming their neighbors by military, political, religious, or economic means into complex societies. Other scholars, however, have argued convincingly that the Olmec represent only one of several largely independent cases of the evolution of social complexity in Mesoamerica.

1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following developments occurred in Mexico between 9,000 and 4,000 years ago?

a.	Sedentary villages gradually disappeared, except along the coast and along lakeshores.
b.	Agriculture spread steadily as more and more plants and animals were domesticated.
c.	Hunter-foragers living on the coasts moved to the highlands.
d.	Maize emerged as the dominant food plant.

2. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.

a.	These small bands never stayed in one place long enough to get the most out of the plants and animals on which they lived.
b.	To keep their impact on the environment low, these small bands never stayed anywhere for very long.
c.	These bands were small and moved frequently, so they had relatively little impact on their environment.
d.	Because these bands were small and did not settle anywhere, there is never enough evidence of the effect they had on their environment.

3. Paragraph 2 supports the idea that the development of social differences would have had which of the following effects?

a.	A quickening of the transition to early agriculture
b.	A slowing down of the change to sedentary life
c.	Less contact among foraging groups
d.	Conflict within foraging groups

4. Paragraph 3 supports which of the following statements about the earliest houses?

a.	They were adapted to the particular climate in which they were built.
b.	They used a variety of construction methods but not of building materials.
c.	They varied in size according to how many people lived in them.
d.	They did not differ significantly from one another.

5. According to paragraph 4, the contents of the excavated houses are mainly related to

a.	the making and shipping of tools
b.	the storage and preparation of food
c.	the production of crafts using natural materials like feathers and shells
d.	the trade goods that the village specialized in producing

6. In paragraph 5, why does the author mention the conditions in which complex society developed in Mesopotamia, China, and elsewhere?

a.	To identify models that guided the author in studying the development of village farming in Mesoamerica
b.	To contrast the sudden emergence of complex societies in Mesoamerica with their very gradual growth in other parts of the world
c.	To emphasize that complex societies emerged in Mesoamerica in the same circumstances as complex societies did elsewhere in the world
d.	To suggest that highly successful food production was limited to a very few places until about 1000 B.C.

7. The wordList “expandable” in the passage is closest in meaning to

a.	capable of being enlarged
b.	easily accessible
c.	highly varied
d.	larger-than-necessary

8. Which of the following does the author imply in paragraph 6 is the most important scholarly controversy about Olmec society?

a.	What name the Olmec themselves used for their society
b.	How the Olmec managed to remain independent
c.	Whether or not all complex Mexican societies were derived from the Olmec
d.	Whether the Olmec used religion or military power to transform their neighbors

9. Look at the four squares that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.

This is so because no evidence of domestication such as enlargement of grain size or thinning seed coats has survived in these regions.

Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square to add the sentence to the passage.

10. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some answer choices do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.

From 9,000 to 4,000 years ago Mexico was inhabited by small bands of hunter-gatherers, who moved from place to place.

Answer Choices

a.	When maize became a domesticated crop and was cultivated in sufficient quantities to feed an entire population, complex societies soon began to develop in the Mexican highlands.

b.	Because the wattle-and-daub method was used in building virtually all houses in the early villages, the houses had to be kept very small and could hold only a few basic items.

c.	Maize may have been domesticated as early as 3500 B.C., and it was productive enough to support a village-farming way of life by about 2000 B.C.

d.	In the small early villages, life revolved around hunting and raising various crops, but there were individuals or entire villages, that became involved with specialized occupations.

e.	The simple farming villages along the South Gulf Coast of Mexico were conquered in about 1000 B.C. by the Olmec, and most local traditions were destroyed.

f.	In about 1000 B.C., the Olmec people went well beyond simple farming, building a complex civilization with good-sized towns.

Task 1

Some people prefer to get information from books. Others prefer using a computer to access information via the Internet. Which do you prefer? Explain why.

Task 2
Reading time: 45 seconds

Café to be built in Library
The university has decided to build a café in the basement of the library. The reason given for this new development is that university officials believe students will enjoy the convenience of being able to eat without having to leave the library. Students have often complained that their studies are disrupted because they must leave the library whenever they want to eat. Officials also believe that it will help make library study more productive if students have the opportunity to take short breaks in the café while they’re working.

Sincerely,
Justin Ruben


Woman: I don’t like the university’s plan.
Man: Really? Why not?
Woman: Well, even though we won’t have to leave the library, that’s just the problem. Nobody’s gonna feel like walking all the way over to the cafeteria, especially when the weather is bad. They’ll just run down to the basement to eat.
Man: I don’t understand. Isn’t that a good thing?
Woman: No, because in the library, they’re just gonna serve a bunch of unhealthy snacks, sandwiches, sweets and soda. So students will just eat junk. At least the cafeteria has some healthy food.
Man: Ok, I see what you mean. Yeah, I probably wouldn’t walk over to the cafeteria either.
Woman: And I think they’re wrong about another thing. If I’m in the library and I know my friends are down in the basement chatting. I’m gonna be tempted to go down there and hang out with them. You know what I mean? I’m sure I’m not the only one who would be tempted to go down there and chat. How’s anybody gonna concentrate on doing actual work?
Man: Yeah, good point.

The woman expresses her opinion of the university’s plan. Describe her opinion and her reasons for holding that opinion.






Task 3
Reading time: 50 seconds

Paradox of Choice
The freedom to make choices and decisions makes people happy because it gives them a sense of being in control of their lives. However, the fact that having some choice is good does not mean that having more choice is necessarily better, since having too many choices can cause anxiety and dissatisfaction. The main reason for this is that as the number of options available to us increases, the effort required to make a good decision increases as well. This phenomenon has been termed the paradox of choice: we like having choices and think that having more choices should please us; but instead, it causes us distress.


Professor: Ok, here’s an example. Last week, I went shopping for a pair of jeans. I hadn’t bought jeans in years, and boy was I in for a surprise. You see, all I wanted was regular jeans. But when I told this to the salesperson, he looked at me as though I was from Mars. He explained I could choose between five different styles, straight or baggy, and I don’t know what else. And a dozen colors, and on top of that, did I want buttons or zipper. Now, it used to be there were only a couple of jeans types, and it was easy for me to decide what I wanted. Now with all these different possibilities, shopping was hard. I went back and forth, this pair was really comfortable, but this other one was the most fashionable, and there were at least four different colors that looked really good. Finally I did settle on one, but it used to take five minutes had turned into a two hour project. Before, the choice was basically just dark blue or light blue, period. Maybe the fit wasn’t perfect but deciding was easy. But now, now I had a complex and time consuming problem on my hands, plus all the back and forth actually gave me a headache. Was I making the right decision, how could I be sure, sure, it was only a pair of jeans, but I left the store anxious, rather than satisfied with my purchase.

Explain what is meant by “the paradox of choice”, using the example mentioned by the professor.

Task 4

Professor: There’s one more method of forest conservation I wanna talk about before we end today, and that’s forest fires. It may come as a surprise to many of you but fire is a key element to many ecosystems. For example, it’s a natural normal process that helps maintain the healthy forest. For decades, we believed that the fire should be suppressed for all costs, so they were put out as quickly as possible to preserve the environment. But in the last 20 years or so, we’ve come to realize the advantages of regular controlled fires to an ecosystem. In fact, a lot of plant species depend on fire for survival. In a forest full of pine trees for example, fire is necessary for reproduction. Pine trees in particular need fire in order to spread their seeds. Pine trees of course have pine cones which contain their seeds, so what happens is that the heat from the fire melts the resin, you know that sticky stuff that holds the cone’s scales together. So the resin melts and the cones open up, and the seeds inside the cone are released on the ground, and eventually young pine trees grow from them. So thanks to the fire, we’ve got a new generation of pine trees. Like I said earlier, fires can help grow better forests which in turn creates a better habitat for wildlife in the areas. For instance, they have an impact on the density of the forest. A fire that kills some trees but not others can open up a forest area previously thick with trees, this lets in sunshine which encourages growth of new shrubs and grasses. Then new plant life in turn brings in new animal species.

Using the examples from the lecture, explain why forest fires are beneficial to the forest ecosystem.

Broccoli is a vegetable that so popular throughout the United States, but it can be grown only in optimal climates where summers are not long. 90 percent of the broccoli consumed in the United States is grown in the cooler regions of California on the West Coast. It must be shipped 4000 kilometers across the entire country to reach the popular East Coast.
The situation may soon change, however. Scientists are attempting to create a new type of broccoli that can be grown on the East Coast despite the hotter summers there. This project has several potential benefits.
First, growing broccoli on the East Coast and distributing t to nearby grocery stores would lower broccoli costs for consumers. Transporting the vegetable from California by truck takes several days, which makes transportation cost high. Growing broccoli locally would reduce transportation costs, so stores could sell broccoli for less money.
Second, the new type of broccoli will probably be much more desirable to consumers than some other new crops. The new broccolis being created using traditional breeding techniques, researchers are crossbreeding broccoli with other similar plants that have desirable characteristics, such as resistance to hot summers. Other new crops- squash or maize, for example-were created using genetic modification technology. Genetically modified crops are very controversial. Many consumers believe they are unsafe. However, the new broccoli will not be in that category.
Third, vegetables are healthiest to eat night after they are harvested because they retain most of their beneficial nutrients and vitamins. The longer it takes for a vegetable like broccoli to reach consumers, the fewer nutrients and vitamins it contains. Broccoli that is grown locally can be eaten much sooner after it is cut which will make this new broccoli heather for East Coast residents than California broccoli.

It is more important to read or watch news presented by people whose views are different from your own than it is to read or watch news presented by those whose views are similar to your own.



